TAMARA KEITH, HOST: 
...6:22 p.m. on Thursday, the 11 of July.
SYDNEY: Things may have changed by the time you hear this. But hopefully, the USA will be the champions.
(SOUNDBITE OF THE BIG TOP ORCHESTRA'S "TEETER BOARD: FOLIES BERGERE (MARCH AND TWO-STEP)")
KEITH: And they are the champions.
DOMENICO MONTANARO, BYLINE: They did. They won. It was awesome.
AYESHA RASCOE, BYLINE: Yes.
KEITH: And there was a ticker-tape parade.
RASCOE: Yes.
MONTANARO: They made it look easy, and that was the hardest part.
KEITH: But you know what? There should've been a ticker-tape parade for her 5 out of 5 on an AP exam.
RASCOE: That was pretty impressive. That's amazing.
MONTANARO: Very impressive. Very impressive.
KEITH: Like, I can't do that.
MONTANARO: I've never gotten a 5.
RASCOE: No, no. I don't think I did.
KEITH: Hey there. It's the NPR POLITICS PODCAST. I'm Tamara Keith. I cover the White House.
RASCOE: I'm Ayesha Rascoe. I also cover the White House.
MONTANARO: And I'm Domenico Montanaro, political editor.
KEITH: And President Trump is backing down on his effort to get a citizenship question added to the 2020 census. He appeared in the Rose Garden a short time ago to make this announcement. Of course, he did not get up there and say he was backing down. He actually got up and said, I am not backing down.
MONTANARO: I was going to say he didn't sound like he was backing down.
KEITH: No.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP: Today, I'm here to say we are not backing down on our effort to determine the citizenship status of the United States population. I stand before you to outline new steps my administration is taking to ensure that citizenship is counted so that we know how many citizens we have in the United States. Makes sense.
KEITH: Ayesha, you were there.
RASCOE: I was there. And it was - just to set the scene a little bit, it was very cloudy, thunderstorms. And we were out in the Rose Garden. And President Trump was out there with Attorney General William Barr and with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. So basically, he said that he would not pursue getting the citizenship question on the 2020 census. What the president and Attorney General Barr admitted was there just wasn't time to do that. They basically said that there would be too many legal challenges if they tried to come up with another reasoning for putting the question on the census. You may remember that the Supreme Court said that, for now, they couldn't ask the question.
KEITH: So instead, President Trump said that he was going to try to get this citizenship information another way.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
TRUMP: I am hereby ordering every department and agency in the federal government to provide the Department of Commerce with all requested records regarding the number of citizens and noncitizens in our country. They must furnish all legally accessible records in their possession immediately.
KEITH: Now, what Hansi Lo Wang, who is our colleague who has been covering the census very closely for about a year, said is that the Commerce Department already has the ability to get all this information. So he doesn't really understand what's new here.
MONTANARO: No. And the fact of the matter is this is - what the president wound up doing is coming to the conclusion that everybody else did two weeks ago when the Supreme Court came out with its ruling that said that this had to go back to the lower courts. The administration was free to come up with a new reasoning that, quote, wasn't "contrived," as Chief Justice John Roberts said about the prior reasoning, which would've been really difficult to do because they would've had to go against their prior reasoning. Once that happened, all of us looked at each other and said, well, there's just not enough time to get this on the census. Everyone knew that, apparently, except for the president until today.
RASCOE: And it was interesting because Barr - he said that the media was speculating and hysterical - and when they said that President Trump was going to try to add the question via an executive order. But the reason why there was all this speculation is because President Trump tweeted last week that the news reports about the Commerce Department dropping his quest to put the citizenship question on the census is fake. And we are absolutely moving forward, as we must. So he is the one who stirred the pot. And even his own Justice Department wasn't really clear on what he was talking about then. And even people around the White House weren't clear. But later, it became clear that they were going to try to put the question on the 2020 census. It never really made sense how they were going to do that logistically. But they kept - but Trump himself said that maybe they would do an addendum. That was Trump.
KEITH: Well, and even as President Trump was tweeting that thing, the Commerce Department had started printing the census.
MONTANARO: They said there was a deadline of July 1, that they needed to get this material out there because it takes a really long time to gather all of this information. But I want to say something else about this executive order because the president is saying, hey, all these federal agencies, give us all of your potential documentation and databases to say, let's count how many citizens are in the country. Guess what? That's exactly what the Census Bureau and the Commerce Department said could've been done last year instead of going to the Supreme Court with this. And then on Friday of last week, we had the president say that he wanted to do this because you had to have an accurate count so that you could, you know - for redistricting. That's not at all what the reason was that the administration used to go before the Supreme Court. So he was coming up with something completely new and something that a lot of people who were against having this question on the census thought was the actual motivation in the first place.
KEITH: Let's just go back to basics really quickly. What is the census supposed to count? And how is that supposed to be used?
MONTANARO: Well, it's supposed to, every 10 years, have an accurate count of all persons residing in the United States. This is not a question that's supposed to be about citizens only in the United States. Now, some conservatives don't like that idea because that gives more resources, more political power to places that have more people in the country who are not citizens.
RASCOE: Is this kind of a pattern for Trump? Or it seems like this is kind of a pattern for Trump, right, Tam?
KEITH: You mean declaring victory in the face of defeat?
RASCOE: Well, yes.
KEITH: Yeah. So he does that a lot. And he's done that most of his life, you know, from his business bankruptcies where he said that it wasn't a loss after all to the Affordable Care Act, where he came out and said, yeah, OK, I know that our Republican congressional effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act didn't work. And it failed. But, you know, maybe that's good after all.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
TRUMP: Perhaps the best thing that can happen is exactly what happened today because we'll end up with a truly great health care bill in the future after this mess known as Obamacare explodes.
MONTANARO: And that's really different than past presidents, obviously, because most of them kind of take their ball and go home and move on to other things they can win, right?
KEITH: Right. But President Trump does not take his ball and go home exactly because he keeps pushing on it. He's still trying to repeal the Affordable Care Act, now through a court process rather than through legislation, and take the border wall. He shut the government down to try to get funding for the border wall, didn't get that funding and then did an emergency declaration to go around Congress to try to fund border-wall building. It's held up in court in some areas but not in others. There is some wall being built. And he can say that it is. This is, as you say, so different from George W. Bush, who failed on Social Security and moved on; Bill Clinton, who failed on health care; President Obama, who failed on immigration and guns. And instead of returning to past defeats, they kind of just moved on to try to make progress in areas where they thought they could get some wins.
MONTANARO: And mitigate the political damage so that they could, you know, keep whatever political capital they have and try to apply it to something else.
RASCOE: I think Trump's political calculus is different. And it's that he wants to be seen as fighting. And he always says what - promises made, promises kept. And he wants to say that every promise he's ever made, he has kept. And so I think for him, it's more important to say, I did do it in a - if you look at it in a very particular way, basically, the way he wants to look at it - I actually - I fought. Or I fought as hard as I possibly could. And those horrible courts - they just stopped me. But I really - but I fought as hard. And I'm still fighting for you.
KEITH: All right. We are going to take a quick break. And when we get back, the 2020 Democratic presidential candidates present their plans to deal with racial inequality.
(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)
KEITH: And we're back. And a huge welcome back to Asma Khalid. Hey, Asma.
ASMA KHALID, BYLINE: Hey there.
KEITH: Welcome back from maternity leave.
RASCOE: Welcome back.
KHALID: Do I still look the same?
KEITH: You do look the same.
MONTANARO: How are you feeling, though?
KHALID: I'm feeling a little rough - you know, a little cold.
(LAUGHTER)
KHALID: Plus, we moved. There's a lot of changes going on in a very short amount of time. But I am glad to be back.
KEITH: So let's just dive right back into this. We're going to spend some time now talking about 2020. And we're starting with Pete Buttigieg. This morning, the South Bend mayor was on NPR's Morning Edition. And he released new details about his plan to combat racial inequality. Here's how he described it.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST)
PETE BUTTIGIEG: What we've learned is that the inequities that we have in our country were put in intentionally by generations and sometimes centuries of racist policy. They're not going to go away just because you replace a racist system with a neutral one. We need to intentionally invest in health, in homeownership, in entrepreneurship, in access to democracy. If we don't do these things, we shouldn't be surprised that racial inequality persists because inequalities compound.
KEITH: And, Asma, he's calling this the Douglass Plan?
KHALID: That's right - after abolitionist Frederick Douglass. And he's really talking about sort of a huge change he feels like we need - structural changes to the ways that we deal with race. And, I mean, look. This is a really ambitious, comprehensive plan. It talks about racial gerrymandering. It talks about abolishing the death penalty. It talks about improving, you know, fair housing for African-American communities, more money to historically black colleges and universities. It's sort of a big, broad, comprehensive plan. But in some ways, it's also kind of this, like, intellectual, philosophical document in the sense that I feel like it's very ambitious, but it doesn't necessarily maybe get into as many dollars and cents as we've seen from some of the other candidates.
KEITH: Well, that's sort of his style, though, right? He has often said, like, we can talk about plans later.
MONTANARO: Yeah, but he's making some serious targets on this. You know, he outlined some of this previously a couple of weeks ago at the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, which is headed by Jesse Jackson. And, you know, some of what he mentioned this morning are things that he said there - like, for example, mandating 25% of government contracts, for example, going to minority-owned businesses. He also talked about trying to reduce the incarceration rate by 50%. And one of the things that he said that would lead to that is by legalizing marijuana.
RASCOE: Yes, and eliminating incarceration for drug possession at the federal level.
KEITH: So, Ayesha, he is a mayor of a mid-sized city - South Bend, Ind. And he has been having some really serious issues at home.
RASCOE: So he's had issues at - in South Bend. Just recently, a white police officer shot and killed a black man. This has been an ongoing issue with - between the community - the black community in South Bend not trusting police officers and feeling like they are the victims of violence at the hands of police officers.
KHALID: To quickly piggyback on what you're saying, Ayesha, also, I mean, he was criticized for firing the city's first black police chief. So part of his relationship is so tense because that's one of the things that happened very early on in his tenure as mayor there in South Bend.
RASCOE: And so that's the issue. And he was asked about this at the debate. And what he said was he couldn't get it done, that he - that this was important and that he worked on it, but he just couldn't get it done when it came to hiring more black police officers. So I think when you look at a plan like this - and this is very ambitious - there are going to be questions for all candidates about how they can get it done. But I think particularly for him is, OK, what evidence do you have that you would be able to get this done? You were the mayor of a town, and this is a town with specific issues dealing with race, and you weren't able to get it done there. So how are you going to get it done on a national level?
KEITH: Well, and let's make something very clear. African-American voters are a very important part of the Democratic electorate.
MONTANARO: Yeah. And he's polling close to zero with them. So, you know, the fact of the matter is that's the whole reason why he's doing some of this - because these candidates need a path to the nomination. And, you know, once you get out of Iowa and New Hampshire, which are pretty lily-white, you know, you're going to South Carolina, which is 61% African-American voters in Democratic primary. And then you have the entirety of the South, which, when you're looking at Southern voters in a Democratic primary, they're overwhelmingly African-American. So for Pete Buttigieg to have a path out of the early states, he's going to need to be able to win over black voters. And as Ayesha mentioned, when he's been in the news for racial tensions in his hometown, that makes it difficult for him because he hasn't been otherwise known very widely on a national scale before getting into this race.
KEITH: Now, he is not the only candidate who is talking about issues of racial inequity.
KHALID: Yeah, exactly. I mean, we've heard a number of plans from candidates this cycle, talk about plans - maybe not perhaps as comprehensive direct appeals. I think this is really sort of a broad-based plan that's a very direct appeal. He sort of sees it as an agenda for black folks in the country. But I will say that you saw Kamala Harris come out with a plan recently around housing discrimination. She's committing to investing $100 billion to provide down-payment assistance to millions of people who live in historically redline districts, which means that, basically, there were neighborhoods in which a number of African-American families just could not get loans.
And, you know, Elizabeth Warren - she's come out with a plan to boost the wages of women of color. She's also promising a set of executive actions that would deny federal contracts to companies that have a poor record of diversity. She's talked about investing a bucketload of money - $7 billion - into a small business fund to help entrepreneurs of color. I mean, we could go kind of...
MONTANARO: Right.
KHALID: ...On and on. But I feel like there's a whole bunch of plans.
RASCOE: And I think what seems to be different this time around with these campaigns is that they are - they do seem to be specifically making a case to black voters about what they will do for them. But there, I think, has been a feeling, and what you will hear from folks is that the black vote at times seems to have been taken for granted. And now black voters are demanding more specific action than just kind of a general rising-tides-will-lift-all-boats-type thing.
KEITH: Let's make a hard turn here and talk about another thing on the campaign trail. We have started to get numbers - fundraising numbers for the second quarter of this year. And fundraising numbers matter because they tell you a lot about the level of support that a candidate has. And, Domenico, I'm hoping you can run us through the numbers. But just to start, Mayor Pete Buttigieg is in the lead by the math with $24.8 million in that second quarter.
MONTANARO: Yeah. Just to run you through some of the top people, like you said, Buttigieg at 24.8 million; former vice president Joe Biden - 21.5 million; Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren - 19.1 million, which was a very good quarter for her - beat expectations; Bernie Sanders, the Vermont senator, at 18 million and Senator Kamala Harris of California at 12 million. And that's about all we know for the people who've raised a significant chunk of money.
KEITH: You know, the thing that's really surprising about Buttigieg here is his fundraising numbers are out of sync with his poll numbers. His poll numbers are OK. You know, he's in the bottom of the top tier, you could say. But his fundraising is tops.
RASCOE: Is that because Buttigieg has been able to win over some people with real amounts of money - maybe in Silicon Valley and some of that?
KHALID: I would say, you know, part of it also is that he has a really well-connected network. I've been talking to a number of people just on background who kind of know him from his past. I mean, this is a guy who went to Harvard. He worked at this very lucrative consulting firm, McKinsey. And he was a Rhodes scholar. He studied at Oxford. And people will say, like, he has this lucrative network that he's able to tap into that perhaps some of the other candidates do not have access to as much.
MONTANARO: Yeah, he's speaking to the donor base. The donors love him. They love when they hear him talk. And it's not the same as - you know, he hasn't quite caught on more broadly. And it's not that his poll numbers are terrible. They're pretty good. But again, we were talking about African-Americans. That has been one source of a problem for him - is being able to win over voters of color.
KEITH: One other interesting thing, Asma, is the - there's sort of the candidates who are doing big-dollar fundraisers along with their small-dollar fundraising like Buttigieg and Biden. And then there are people like Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren...
KHALID: Yeah...
KEITH: ...Who've made a very different choice.
KHALID: ...Who - exactly - who are not doing those high-dollar fundraisers, who - you know, Elizabeth Warren really publicly made this statement that she was not going to engage in that. And her campaign's argument is that this allows us more time to do other things. It allows us to take a selfie with every last person at an organizing event, right? And so this is her argument - that it's been able to help bring in the small-dollar money. And, you know, her campaign will see this as a way that they're really building grassroots organizing strength, and they're energizing people to build a stronger long-term campaign. I guess we'll see how that all plays out in the months ahead. But so far, this cycle, it seems like she was able to do pretty successful with that strategy.
MONTANARO: Well, and, I mean, significantly, she was able to beat out Bernie Sanders, who is competing with her in that progressive lane and who's also, you know, going after the $27 donation, right? That's his whole thing. Hers was $28 per contribution.
KEITH: And I don't think his was actually 27 this...
MONTANARO: This time.
KEITH: Yeah.
MONTANARO: Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I think it...
KEITH: I think it was a little lower.
MONTANARO: It was actually lower. It was...
KEITH: Yeah.
MONTANARO: ...Like, $20 in the first quarter.
KHALID: I mean, there is - I think we're going to see an ongoing kind of competition between Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as this campaign heats up. We are already seeing that competition, I would say, in the poll numbers. And I think we're going to continue to see a competition between the two of them for some similar voters.
MONTANARO: Well...
KHALID: Not all, but some.
KEITH: Now, Ayesha, we also got fundraising numbers from someone else.
RASCOE: Yes - President Trump and the Republican Party. Now, these were whopper numbers - can I call it whopper?
KEITH: I think whopper is a word.
RASCOE: Whopper.
MONTANARO: Does he like Whoppers?
KEITH: It's not just a burger.
RASCOE: (Laughter).
MONTANARO: Does he serve them?
KEITH: I think he does like Whoppers.
MONTANARO: Yeah.
KEITH: But it is a whopper of a number. You're right.
MONTANARO: He's more of a McDonald's guy, though.
RASCOE: I like Whoppers, too. But yeah, I'm not big on Big Macs. But I digress - $105 million...
MONTANARO: Yeah.
RASCOE: ...In the second quarter.
KHALID: That is a lot of money...
RASCOE: That's a lot of money.
KHALID: ...A lot of money...
KEITH: And that's a mix...
KHALID: ...Lot of moolah.
KEITH: That is a mix of small donors and large donors. It does combine the Republican Party with President Trump. But guess what?
MONTANARO: They can use that money.
KEITH: The Republican Party and President Trump are combined. Their operations - they share space. They are a combined operation.
KHALID: I mean, this is so much more money than if you add up the amount that Buttigieg, Biden, Warren, Sanders and Harris got collectively.
MONTANARO: That's amazing. You know, it's not quite apples to apples because they are able to take in above the contribution limits that a normal campaign would take because the Trump victory fund and the RNC can take in all that money and combine them. So he can go to an event and say, give me, you know, $5,000. And, like, it can go to both - they can split the - you know, above the first $2,800 will then go - leftovers can go to the RNC. But that is the advantage that a president has who's running for reelection. The Democrats don't get to do that until they pick a nominee next year.
RASCOE: Right. And - but just to compare - so President Obama's reelection campaign reported about $46 million in the second quarter of 2011.
MONTANARO: Wow.
RASCOE: So this is a lot of money. And, I mean, this was the campaign. But Trump raised a lot of money, and the Republicans did.
KEITH: Before we go to Can't Let It Go, we have one more piece Of business to take care of.
(SOUNDBITE OF 'N SYNC SONG, "BYE BYE BYE")
KEITH: We have lost a candidate.
RASCOE: Oh, no.
(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "BYE BYE BYE")
'N SYNC: (Singing) Hey, hey. Bye, bye, bye. Bye, bye, bye, bye.
KEITH: And the first to drop out was Eric Swalwell...
(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "BYE BYE BYE")
'N SYNC: (Singing) Bye, bye, bye, bye.
KEITH: ...California congressman from the East Bay in California.
MONTANARO: This makes perfect sense. This is great music for - I hope we do hear this every single time...
KEITH: Oh, we are going to hear this every single time.
MONTANARO: Because there are two dozen candidates. And Tom Steyer got into the race.
RASCOE: (Laughter) They tagged out...
KHALID: Meaning you add one. You left one.
MONTANARO: Yes.
RASCOE: ...A little like tag-team.
KHALID: A Californian.
MONTANARO: They did a - they completely balance each other out. And, you know, what you guys hear when you go on the campaign trail - people are saying they just feel like there are too many candidates.
KHALID: We should explain. So Tom Steyer is this billionaire philanthropist who initially had said he was not going to run for president. He was - gave this very public announcement that he was instead going to focus his efforts elsewhere, focus his efforts on impeaching the president. But he's now had a change of heart, apparently.
MONTANARO: Right. Yeah.
KHALID: And he's going to be running for president.
KEITH: Eric Swalwell's big line from the debate was pass the torch.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
ERIC SWALWELL: Joe Biden was right when he said it was time to pass the torch to a new generation of Americans 32 years ago.
(CHEERING)
SWALWELL: He's still right today. If we're going to solve the issues of automation, pass the torch. If we're going to solve the issues of climate chaos, pass the torch. If we're going to...
MONTANARO: He passed it to Tom Steyer.
KEITH: Sort of, yeah.
MONTANARO: Well, look - he tried to say that, you know, restricting gun violence was his top issue. You know, he launched just miles from Parkland, where there was that mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. And he tried to run on, you know, getting guns out of schools in particular and to have fewer guns in American society. He did raise the issue, but it wasn't able to be something, obviously, that he felt could propel him further with two dozen candidates in the field.
KEITH: All right. Well, bye, bye, bye, Eric Swalwell.
MONTANARO: Bye-bye.
RASCOE: Bye-bye.
KEITH: Bye.
(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "BYE BYE BYE")
'N SYNC: But it ain't no lie - bye, bye, bye. Bye, bye, bye, bye.
KEITH: All right. We're going to leave this here for now. And when we get back, it is time for Can't Let It Go.
And we're back. And it's time to end the show like we do every week - with Can't Let It Go, where we talk about one thing we cannot stop thinking about, politics or otherwise. Domenico, what can't you let go of?
MONTANARO: Well, you know, in presidential campaigns, slogans are really important, right?
KEITH: Yeah.
MONTANARO: I mean, President Trump has been struggling with this. Is it Make America Great Again again? Is it keep America great?
KEITH: Hashtag #KAG.
MONTANARO: KAG, you know? I don't think he really loves it. But anyway, the point is someone this week decided to make it go around social media that we could all have our own 2020, you know, slogans. And the way this works - and I saw it from our producer Barton's IG story, by the way - Instagram for the older people who don't really know...
KHALID: (Laughter).
MONTANARO: And it's your last name - so everyone should do this now together...
KHALID: OK.
MONTANARO: ...OK? It's your last name, 2020 - OK? - and then whatever your last text message was.
RASCOE: (Laughter).
MONTANARO: That's your slogan. So, Asma, I'm putting you on the spot. What was your very last text message? You have to tell us whatever it was - not one you select.
KHALID: Khalid - otherwise, he'll wake up early for food.
(LAUGHTER)
KHALID: Explanation of - I have a newborn child...
RASCOE: Yes.
KEITH: Yeah.
KHALID: ...Who's currently at home with my husband.
(LAUGHTER)
MONTANARO: Ayesha, you're next.
RASCOE: Rascoe - I'm planning to get box braids, but I'm going to have to get the bigger ones. I don't have the patience.
(LAUGHTER)
KEITH: That's a long one.
MONTANARO: It's good, though.
RASCOE: I'm getting - I want to get braids this summer, box braids. You look them up - Google them. And I don't want to get the ones that are really tiny because it takes a long time to take out. So I was talking to friends...
KEITH: (Laughter).
RASCOE: ...About how long they take to - this is a black girl thing.
MONTANARO: Uh-huh.
RASCOE: It can take hours - like 10 hours or something. I don't want - I don't have time for that.
KEITH: Yeah...
MONTANARO: OK, Tam?
KEITH: ...Seriously. Keith 2020 - just trying to understand whether it is a memorandum and what the legal theory is.
(LAUGHTER)
RASCOE: That's a good one, though.
MONTANARO: That sounds like...
RASCOE: That kind of works.
MONTANARO: That sounds like you covered the Hillary Clinton campaign.
(LAUGHTER)
MONTANARO: Mine...
KEITH: This is just sad.
MONTANARO: Mine is rather unfortunate. Mine is Montanaro 2020 - I will-a do-a my best-a.
(LAUGHTER)
KHALID: What?
RASCOE: What?
MONTANARO: I am not kidding.
KEITH: I will-a...
MONTANARO: I will-a do-a my best-a.
KEITH: You're doing, like, some weird Italian thing?
MONTANARO: This was just an absurd - like, it just happened to be that as soon as I saw Barton's IG story, I was, like, I wonder what my last text was? And then I saw that, and I started dying because I was, like, OK. So the backstory to that was I was making dinner, and I was trying to just jokingly say - like, 'cause I was putting together a meal, and I'm Italian, so I like to cook, and I...
KEITH: (Laughter).
MONTANARO: I hope it's good - is that I will-a do-a my best-a.
(CROSSTALK)
KEITH: ...As a political...
KHALID: Yeah. Yeah.
RASCOE: It's a dad joke.
KHALID: I'm not promising. I'm just going to do my best.
KEITH: I'm not making promises I can't keep, but I will-a do-a my best-a.
MONTANARO: All right, Tam. What can't you let go of?
KEITH: We were up in New Hampshire to interview two candidates over the weekend for the NPR POLITICS PODCAST. One of those interviews is already posted - the one with Tulsi Gabbard. The one with Amy Klobuchar will post on Monday morning. So we are going to this town of Franconia to follow Tulsi Gabbard in a parade. And we go into this market to go to the bathroom, get some snacks. We're standing in line to go to the bathroom. And one of Amy Klobuchar's aides walks up and gets in line for the bathroom, too - small-town New Hampshire.
So then we walk out of the market. And we're, like, hey, there's, like, two dudes. They look kind of like campaign people. They don't look like they're going to a parade. Oh, wait - one of them is Seth Moulton, and he's running for president. So, like, I just couldn't stop laughing. I was, like, OK. Welcome to New Hampshire. You just, like, almost run into one in a parking lot. And then we're following Gabbard in the parade. And what do you know? Amy Klobuchar is also marching in the same parade. We're, like, all right. We're just - we're, like, we can't escape the presidential candidates.
Ayesha, what can't you let go of?
RASCOE: So what I can't let go of this week is - I work at the White House. You do too, Tam.
KEITH: Oh, yes.
RASCOE: And people think it's very glamorous, but we have some real-world problems here, and...
(LAUGHTER)
KEITH: They may be first-world problems, but they are real.
RASCOE: They're real-world problems. And on Monday, it rained a lot in D.C., and there was a leak at the White House - and not the normal leaks that we get, but there was just a flooding in the basement, where reporters have offices. There was a lot of water coming up in the basement. And I think they had to get, like, you know, things out to try to dry out. It wasn't in - luckily, it was not in the NPR booth. The NPR booth was unscathed.
MONTANARO: Wow. But...
KEITH: But it's an old building. A big part of it is underground. It was last updated many years ago. The press area was last updated maybe...
KHALID: Maybe it's time for a...
KEITH: ...Several years ago.
KHALID: ...House renovation.
MONTANARO: And before those of you decide to email in or tweet at us that it's because D.C.'s built on a swamp, that's actually a myth.
KEITH: Asma, what can't you let go of?
KHALID: All right. Well, for those of you who are familiar with the podcast Embedded that we have that our colleague Kelly McEvers has been doing - she's been doing some work looking at Mitch McConnell. And there's an episode she has out that's new that - sort of a nugget of it caught my eye. In the 1990s, Mitch McConnell got a thousand-dollar campaign check from the one real estate developer and author of the bestselling book "The Art Of The Deal," Donald Trump. And he returned that check.
RASCOE: Wow, really?
KHALID: So Trump at this point in time had been, you know, kind of on the verge of bankruptcy. He wasn't doing too well financially even though he had previously been, you know, on this list of very wealthy folks. And so McConnell had been getting a lot of heat about getting this money. And so he had never met Trump, but he said, quote, "While I thank you for your contribution, I have noticed several stories in the last few weeks about your financial difficulties." He wrote this all in a letter. "Although I am certain you will recover, I have decided to return your contribution of a thousand dollars because it appears you may need the money more than I do right now."
MONTANARO: Damn.
KEITH: Ooh. Well, he did recover. He's president.
RASCOE: He did.
KEITH: And Mitch McConnell is doing his bidding.
RASCOE: Well...
KEITH: (Laughter).
RASCOE: I'm sure Trump would like this story to be talked about a lot more. I'm sure he loves...
(LAUGHTER)
RASCOE: ...The story of McConnell giving him the money back and saying that he needed it more than him. I'm sure he would love that story.
KHALID: But it just to me highlighted, like, how awkward that relationship has been for so many years.
RASCOE: Yeah. That's - I wonder, does Trump remember that, though? He probably does.
KEITH: Well, he does now.
(LAUGHTER)
KHALID: The White House did not respond to NPR's request for comment.
(LAUGHTER)
KEITH: All right. That is a wrap for today - and a reminder that we're hitting the road, and we'll be in Boulder, Colo., for a live show on September 20. And we'll be doing another live show in Washington, D.C., on November 8. Tickets are on sale right now, so head over to nprpresents.org.
I'm Tamara Keith. I cover the White House.
KHALID: I'm Asma Khalid, political reporter.
RASCOE: I'm Ayesha Rascoe. I also cover the White House.
MONTANARO: And I'm Domenico Montanaro, political editor.
KEITH: And thank you for listening to the NPR POLITICS PODCAST.
(SOUNDBITE OF THE BIG TOP ORCHESTRA'S "TEETER BOARD: FOLIES BERGERE (MARCH AND TWO-STEP)")