Hey, guys, before we get started - we have two live shows coming up. One is in Chicago on January 10, and the other one is at Drew University in Madison, N.J. That one's on January 22. We would love to see you there. To grab a ticket, just head over to nprpresents.org. OK. Here's the show.
CASEY: Hello. This is Casey (ph), your friendly MRI technologist. The sound you hear behind me is my 1.5 Tesla magnet. I'm gearing up for a full day of taking care of the people in Bethany, Mo. This podcast was recorded at...
KEITH: 1:48 p.m. on Friday, November 15.
CASEY: Things may have changed by the time you hear this. All right. Here's the show.
(SOUNDBITE OF THE BIGTOP ORCHESTRA'S "TEETER BOARD: FOLIES BERGERE (MARCH AND TWO-STEP)")
KEITH: Here I thought she was doing laundry.
AYESHA RASCOE, BYLINE: What was that?
KEITH: There's like a shoe in there and it was just like dun-dun-dun-dun (ph).
DOMENICO MONTANARO, BYLINE: That was the MRI machine.
RASCOE: Oh, that was the MRI.
MONTANARO: Yeah.
RASCOE: Oh, OK. She said Tesla, so I was thinking it was a car. And then I was like, wait, what, she's taking the car to give people MRIs? I was confused.
KEITH: Nikola Tesla was an inspiration to many.
RASCOE: OK.
KEITH: Hey there, it's the NPR POLITICS PODCAST. I'm Tamara Keith. I cover the White House.
RASCOE: I'm Ayesha Rascoe. I also cover the White House.
MONTANARO: And I'm Domenico Montanaro, senior political editor and correspondent.
KEITH: All right, guys - another day, another impeachment hearing. Today it was Marie Yovanovitch, the U.S. ambassador to the Ukraine who was ousted by President Trump in May. She is, as we speak, still on Capitol Hill testifying in that impeachment inquiry. So, guys, I just want to talk through what stood out to us from what we've heard so far.
MONTANARO: You know, Yovanovitch, Ambassador William Taylor, who testified earlier this week, George Kent, who was a top State Department official with oversight over Ukraine - we've known a lot of what they were going to say because of what they've said in hours-long closed-door depositions. What's different about this is how they present themselves to the public on camera and whether that can influence public opinion in any way at all. I thought Yovanovitch, for what she was trying to do, presented herself as a serious person, laid out what her concerns were, how she was targeted and how she felt threatened by what the president said about her on the July 25 call. She also was able to, I think, lay out why she feels it's important that as an ambassador to another country who's trying to fulfill, you know, the U.S. stated foreign policy objectives, why she feels it's important that people understand that ousting a U.S. ambassador the way it was done might set a bad precedent.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
MARIE YOVANOVITCH: How is it that foreign corrupt interests could manipulate our government? Which countries' interests are served when the very corrupt behavior we have been criticizing is allowed to prevail? Such conduct undermines the U.S., exposes our friends and widens the playing field for autocrats like President Putin. Our leadership depends on the power of our example and the consistency of our purpose. Both have now been opened to question.
MONTANARO: I mean, there she talks about President Putin of Russia, the fact that geopolitically he's really looking for leverage over Ukraine and he, she said, was able to throw the U.S. off the scent - or at least President Trump - of saying that Russia was behind interference in U.S. elections, which the U.S. intelligence community has overwhelmingly stated it was Russia that was involved, not Ukraine.
KEITH: In some ways, this was a very long public service announcement about the very important, often difficult work that foreign service officers do for the U.S. government and for the American people. They go to difficult outposts, and they represent the interests of the United States to other countries, to the leadership of those countries. And Yovanovitch, like Taylor and Kent, has been a diplomat for a very long time, has had a long career. And she saw that career come to an end as the result of what she describes as a smear campaign. And then remarkably, during the hearing, Ayesha, it kind of continued.
RASCOE: Yeah. So during the hearing, the president actually tweeted about Yovanovitch, essentially saying that everywhere she goes, bad things happen. He was almost blaming her. He brought up - she had a early post, I guess, in her career in Somalia.
KEITH: In Mogadishu, yeah
RASCOE: Yeah. And he said look what happened there - I don't know, maybe blaming her for unrest in Somalia. But it led to this moment where Chairman Schiff basically read that tweet to Yovanovitch and got her reaction.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
ADAM SCHIFF: Would you like to respond to the president's attack that everywhere you went turned bad?
YOVANOVITCH: Well, I mean, I don't think I have such powers, not Mogadishu, Somalia, and not in other places. I actually think that where I've served over the years, I and others have demonstrably made things better.
RASCOE: So she was asked further about this. And she said - Yovanovitch said about that tweet that she finds it intimidating and that the things that President Trump has said, that she finds it intimidating.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
SCHIFF: What effect do you think that has on other witnesses' willingness to come forward and expose wrongdoing?
YOVANOVITCH: Well, it's very intimidating.
SCHIFF: It's designed to intimidate, is it not?
YOVANOVITCH: I mean, I can't speak to what the president is trying to do, but I think the effect is to be intimidating.
SCHIFF: Well, I want to let you know, Ambassador, that some of us here take witness intimidation very, very seriously.
RASCOE: Now, what the White House is saying is that, how could this be intimidating to Yovanovitch? White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham says that the president was simply stating his opinion, which he is entitled to. She also said in the statement that this is not a trial, therefore he cannot be, I guess, intimidating witnesses. Now, the White House has also called for due process, so to say that this is not a trial in a way contradicts that. But they're just basically saying that they don't agree with the process at all and that the president is just stating his opinion.
MONTANARO: And look. This idea of witness intimidation, you know, that's laid out here that the White House is sort of defending themselves against already is important because you heard Adam Schiff say that witness intimidation is something that he takes, quote, "very, very seriously," which raised a flag for me and made me wonder if he's thinking about adding that now to a potential article of impeachment along with hearing Nancy Pelosi say that what she sees the president having done is bribery. So bribery and witness intimidation as potential things that Democrats could add to articles of impeachment.
KEITH: And the other thing that the White House and Republicans on the committee have been - the point that they've been making today is the ambassador serves at the pleasure of the president of the United States, which Ambassador Yovanovitch agreed with. She's like, yeah, the president can choose his ambassadors. That is true.
RASCOE: Yes, he absolutely can. So he has the right to remove and to appoint who he wants to. The Senate does have to actually confirm ambassadors. But it seems like what Yovanovitch was also saying was the president has the right to remove me, but to remove me because of a smear campaign by people who may be corrupt sends the wrong message to other countries. And that seemed to be the message that Yovanovitch was trying to get across.
MONTANARO: Yeah. And I think the bigger question that it raises that she tried to lay out was to say, who do U.S. diplomats overseas fight for? What is their role? Is their role to go and vouch for the president's personal interests, or are they there to carry out officially stated U.S. policy, foreign policy? Which is why these two channels that had been created - this regular channel and this irregular channel, as Ambassador Taylor called it, that was led by Giuliani - were so confusing for these longtime diplomats because they would write back or they would call in and say, has the U.S. official policy changed? Because they're trying to figure out, do they need to change? They will do what the president wants them to do as far as official foreign policy goes, but not necessarily - I think it makes them more concerned and more worried when they seemingly have to go and look into something that could be part of the president's personal interest.
KEITH: Let's turn to the Republican side. Democrats got the first 45 minutes of questioning, then Republicans got the next 45 minutes. Right at the start of the hearing, Devin Nunes, the ranking member on that committee, took out a transcript that had just been released, a rough call log that had just been released by the White House of a call - the first call between President Trump and President Zelenskiy. This was a call on April 21.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
DEVIN NUNES: The president - well, I agree with you about your country, and I look forward to it. When I owned Miss Universe, they always had great people. Ukraine always very well represented, was always very well represented. When you're settled in and ready, I'd like to invite you to the White House. We'll have a lot of things to talk about. We're with you all the way.
KEITH: So this 16-minute, short, congratulatory call, Nunes read it. I mean, in some ways, this was great stagecraft from the White House and his allies on the Hill.
MONTANARO: Sure, I mean, to release it right at the exact time as this hearing was starting. The only question, really, here is, what is this transcript supposed to show? You know, and the fact is it actually wound up raising more questions than it did helping the president, I think, because in their readout in April, they said that the president pushed Zelenskiy to talk about corruption.
There was not a single mention of corruption or even an intimation of looking into corruption. You know, you had Zelenskiy talking about tasty and delicious food in Ukraine and trying to coax the president to go to Ukraine because he needs President Trump and the American president to look like he's fully on the side of Ukraine. And you had the president on the other hand saying he invited him to the White House in that call. That White House meeting still hasn't taken place, and funds wound up being withheld that had already been appropriated by Congress.
RASCOE: It does seem to serve having a transcript out there where President Trump is not bringing up Biden and just says only nice things.
KEITH: This is the actual perfect call.
RASCOE: Yeah, this is the actual perfect call where nothing actually happened. And when you have two transcripts, that's going to be confusing to most people who are not following it as closely as we are. That could be like, well, what transcript? You know, people aren't going to know all those details, so by putting out two of them, you also can kind of add to confusion among the viewing public about what's actually happening.
And then I do find it interesting that they've leaned so hard into this transcript. Like, the president tweeted out screenshots of it. He has not been tweeting out screenshots of the other perfect call that happened on July 25. So they seem to really like this call. And even though they said - the president says he loves that other call, he has not taken the time to actually tweet out screenshots of that one.
KEITH: One last thing from this hearing is Devin Nunes, when he got his 45 minutes to ask questions, the first thing he went to do was essentially say, why are we here again, anyway?
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
NUNES: Not exactly sure what the ambassador is doing here today. This is the House Intelligence Committee that's now turned into the House impeachment committee. This seems more appropriate for the subcommittee on human resources at the Foreign Affairs Committee.
KEITH: This is the larger point - that, you know, she wasn't there for the key moments of the July 25 phone call, and the president has the right to oust whoever he wants. That's sort of the argument he was making there and an argument that Republicans on the committee, a number of them, made. OK, that is it for today's hearing, but there will be a bunch more next week. We're going to take a quick break, and when we get back - 2020.
(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)
KEITH: And we're back, and we've got Asma Khalid here with us now. Hey, Asma.
ASMA KHALID, BYLINE: Hey there.
KEITH: And you are here because it is time to talk 2020. And there's somebody we need to say hello to.
(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "HELLO")
LIONEL RICHIE: (Singing) Hello. Is it me you're looking for?
MONTANARO: Yes. Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
KEITH: Hello, Michael Bloomberg. Hello, Deval Patrick. Both of them are hoping to be the next president, which brings our tally of Democratic candidates to - what - 18?
MONTANARO: Too many.
KEITH: Eighteen? Seventeen? Eighteen?
RASCOE: Too many.
(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "HELLO")
RICHIE: (Singing) Tell me how to win your heart, for I haven't got a clue. But let me start by saying I love you.
KHALID: So this is tricky because Michael Bloomberg has not officially decided whether or not he's going to be entering this contest. Though, he has filed to be on the ballot in some states already.
MONTANARO: I think that counts. I mean, if he's going to be on the ballot in Alabama and Arkansas, like, he's running.
KEITH: Then he is technically...
MONTANARO: Yeah, he's technically in the race.
KEITH: He is literally running for president.
KHALID: Domenico has announced that he is running for president of the United States.
MONTANARO: I haven't announced I'm running for anything.
KHALID: No, that he's announced.
MONTANARO: I know. I got you.
(LAUGHTER)
KHALID: But the other name this week that, you know, got a lot of attention from folks was the former governor of Massachusetts, Deval Patrick. He is, I believe, only the second African American man elected as a governor anywhere in the United States' history.
KEITH: Right, and you have covered him. What is his strategy? What's he up to?
KHALID: So his strategy is different than what Michael Bloomberg's would be if he enters the race. You know, Bloomberg has essentially said that if he were to enter, he would bypass the early voting states of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. Deval Patrick's path to a nomination arguably has to go through his neighboring state of New Hampshire and then rest on doing really well with African American voters in South Carolina. That is arguably his strategy.
Now, he faces a lot of difficulties because he is entering this contest where we're less than three months away from when voters are going to start casting ballots. He doesn't have funds, you know. He doesn't have an organization. And some of these other candidates have been out campaigning for months at this point.
RASCOE: And so Patrick - does he come to this race with any kind of baggage or anything like that? Is - like, how strong of a candidate is he?
MONTANARO: I think one of the big things for him that's going to be problematic with this Democratic primary is the fact that he worked for Bain Capital after being governor, tried to make money, obviously. But Bain Capital, people might remember, was founded by Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney actually tweeted about the delusion of former Massachusetts governors who try to run for president - ha-ha. Get it?
(LAUGHTER)
RASCOE: Well, it didn't work out for him.
KEITH: Well, he's senator now.
KHALID: It's part of history (laughter).
MONTANARO: I think the bigger news here is that both Patrick getting in and Bloomberg thinking about it are signals of something of no-confidence votes in Joe Biden. Because he has struggled in the debates, his candidacy has seemed to sort of sputter - that these folks, who are kind of more centrist-y (ph) left of center. They're certainly liberals, but they're more moderate than, say, Elizabeth Warren or Bernie Sanders - that if Biden were strong, they probably wouldn't get in.
KEITH: Because Biden would have scared them away.
MONTANARO: Not scared them away. I think that they want somebody closer to the middle to win. There's a lot of Democrats in the establishment, Democratic - you know, people who've been part of the party for some time, who rightly or wrongly fear that the policies of Elizabeth Warren in particular can't win in a general election, when the focus should be on solely beating President Trump.
RASCOE: So realistically, like, what difference will these two candidates make in this race?
KHALID: So at this point, it's just tough to get the name recognition, the campaign infrastructure and the money to really have a viable contest. And Deval Patrick - he knows this. You know, he made these comments yesterday saying essentially that any presidential contest is a longshot but his especially.
(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING)
DEVAL PATRICK: You know, if running for president is a Hail Mary under any circumstances, this is like a Hail Mary from two stadiums over.
(LAUGHTER)
KHALID: He's self-aware.
MONTANARO: Yeah.
RASCOE: So he knows it's hard, but he feels like it's - he has something to offer.
KHALID: I mean, this is tricky. You know, I - him and the former president, Barack Obama, are close. They have been close for years. Some of former President Obama's consultants, advisers, like David Axelrod, were a part of helping him win the governorship in 2006. I don't see a scenario in which if - and this is me totally hypothesizing - but if Barack Obama had told him, like, no, don't enter this contest, that Deval Patrick would have entered. So to me, the fact that he got in, given how tight he is historically with Barack Obama, is significant. Again, to what Domenico is saying - it's a vote of no-confidence in Joe Biden or even just a question mark of confidence.
MONTANARO: You know, they're so close that they actually borrowed passages from each other in 2008, when Obama was running, and Obama had - actually apologized and said that he should have cited Patrick in some of his rhetoric, but that Patrick allowed him to do it.
KEITH: So we are preparing to cover, next week, another Democratic debate. The stage is already set. These two aren't on that stage.
KHALID: That's right. Only 10 candidates are going to be on that stage. But really, Tam, to me, what's perhaps one of the most interesting things about this debate, as you might recall - like a lot of debates (laughter)...
KEITH: All debates.
KHALID: We talk a lot about health care in all of the debates. And Elizabeth Warren, the senator from Massachusetts, was critiqued quite a bit about her "Medicare for All" plan and essentially whether or not that would raise taxes. Since that last debate, she has now come out with plans. She, you know, released a plan for how she intends to pay for Medicare for All. And just today, she released a plan that outlines how she intends to transition to a Medicare for All system. So now she's got answers. The thing to me is, like, are these answers really going to be sufficient to protect her from criticism, or do they just give her opponents more fodder to work with?
KEITH: All right, we are going to take a quick break. And when we get back, Can't Let it Go.
(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)
KEITH: And we're back. And before we get to Can't Let it Go, we've got some news about one Roger Stone. He was found guilty of obstruction, witness tampering and lying to Congress. Stone was an adviser to President Trump, a political adviser for many years. Domenico, what does this all mean? Does this development matter or change anything? I mean, it's coming as the impeachment hearings are ongoing.
MONTANARO: Yeah. I mean, I think what's interesting about it, though, is that it picks up sort of on the Mueller report, Mueller investigation because, you know, a lot of people thought that that was over, but there have now been half a dozen people who've been ensnared in the Mueller investigation. Roger Stone was part of that. I mean, you're talking about lying to Congress, obstruction, witness tampering and that these are things that are still falling out from this Mueller investigation. And there are a handful of others who are going to be serving prison time as well, who are all close to President Trump.
KEITH: Well, and Stone was doing what he's now been convicted of in service of President Trump or to protect President Trump politically.
MONTANARO: Yeah, I mean, it doesn't really get much closer than what we've gotten to - the president's personal attorney in Michael Cohen; his campaign chairman in Paul Manafort; a senior adviser to his campaign in Roger Stone, somebody who certainly had the ear of the president, could call him anytime he wants. And just look at how that circle has tightened.
KEITH: All right, we are going to let go of Roger Stone and talk about what we really can't let go of. Of course, this is our segment where we talk about the things that we can't stop thinking about, politics or otherwise Asma, what can't you let go of?
KHALID: So I'm sure you all are familiar with holograms. If you've ever, you know, remember seeing that one of Michael Jackson - was it a couple of years ago at the Billboard Music Awards? And then there was the one of 2Pac at - was it Coachella, right? Holograms...
RASCOE: It was someplace.
KHALID: It was someplace.
MONTANARO: Or Anderson Cooper on CNN in 2008.
(LAUGHTER)
KEITH: Yes, yes. That is a hologram I remember.
KHALID: That you remember. So I, earlier this week, was at the National Archives for this memorial tribute to Cokie Roberts, you know, longtime part of the NPR family. And Cokie, you know, has written and talked a lot about the importance of women in the early American historical tradition, how they were not remembered. And she started saying often, you know, remember the ladies.
So anyhow, there is this giant mural on one of the walls of the rotunda in the National Archives, and it's this picture of James Madison essentially, I think, giving a draft of the Constitution to George Washington. So that night, they added the ladies, holographic version to this mural. And it's amazing. It was Abigail Adams, Martha Washington. I think it was Eliza Hamilton, Abigail Adams - a bunch of these women. I just want to show you a picture of this because it's kind of visual. You feel like you need to appreciate and see it.
KEITH: So it's the Founding Mothers.
RASCOE: Yeah.
KHALID: The Founding Mothers. OK, look at this. This is so cool.
MONTANARO: It is really cool.
RASCOE: I saw that. It was really nice.
KHALID: It's kind of creepy because I always feel when you put, like, you know, old...
MONTANARO: You thought it's creepy (laughter)
KHALID: No. I mean, it's creepy in the sense that it's, like, seeing these pictures of these old women - I mean, it's, like, weird whenever you see holograms, I think, but it's cool creepy. It's cool creepy.
MONTANARO: So the news is Asma doesn't like pictures of old women.
KHALID: No.
RASCOE: No.
MONTANARO: What?
KHALID: I'm showing this to you. I mean, it's cool...
KEITH: It's cool.
KHALID: ...That the founding mothers were added to the Founding Fathers.
RASCOE: So...
MONTANARO: It is very cool.
RASCOE: Are these holograms going to stay up there?
KHALID: I don't know the answer to that.
RASCOE: Or was it just for a special event?
KEITH: It was probably just special for Cokie.
KHALID: I think it was a special event. But you know what? I will tweet it at my Twitter handle, so if people are actually curious about what this looks like, then you can see what I'm actually referring to.
MONTANARO: But hey; forget about the hologram. Somebody paint them in. Like, let's make it permanent.
KEITH: I'm pretty sure that...
MONTANARO: Create a new painting.
KEITH: OK. New painting, yes; old painting probably needs to be preserved...
MONTANARO: But Tam...
KEITH: ...By the archives.
RASCOE: But a great tribute to a great woman...
KEITH: Indeed. Ayesha, what can't you let go of?
RASCOE: I cannot let go of - this week, everybody's been talking about that Disney+, which is...
MONTANARO: Part of your streaming services...
RASCOE: ...The new streaming service.
MONTANARO: Yep.
KEITH: Oh.
RASCOE: Well, I guess everybody hasn't been talking about it.
KEITH: (Laughter).
RASCOE: So I was one of those people - I was like, there are too many streaming services. I already have Hulu, Netflix, Amazon Prime, cable. I got everything. But everyone started talking about it, and I was like, you know what? As soon as the - on the day that it came out, I was like, I'm going to sign up.
KEITH: Oh, my God.
KHALID: So did it live up to the expectation?
KEITH: Oh, the advertising worked.
KHALID: I feel really out of the loop that I actually don't know. You know, I have, like, basic television-watching habits.
RASCOE: I've been watching old "Simpsons" episodes...
KHALID: OK.
RASCOE: ...Which - I don't know if that's really an effective use of my money, but - I think I can already get that on cable. But I don't know. I just - it was something about it, and I was like, I'm going to get this.
KEITH: All right. What I cannot let go of is the fat cat.
RASCOE: What?
KEITH: So apparently, this guy wanted to fly with his cat, who he must love a lot because he overfed it over the course of years.
MONTANARO: I mean, cats do tend to eat a lot.
KEITH: So apparently, if you're flying with a cat, if you want to have it in the main cabin, it needs to be 17 pounds or less...
MONTANARO: OK.
KEITH: ...Which is substantial for a cat.
KHALID: I didn't know there was a weight limit.
KEITH: This man's cat was 22 pounds.
MONTANARO: Daddy's got to pay for his seat?
KEITH: No, no, no. They were going to try to put it in the...
KHALID: Underneath...
KEITH: ...Under part. And so the man got a dummy. Like, he got another cat...
RASCOE: That looked like his cat. I heard - I saw this.
KEITH: Yeah.
MONTANARO: What?
KEITH: So he got a cat that was, like, a more svelte cat, took the cat to the weigh-in at check-in and then...
MONTANARO: Swapped it?
KEITH: ...Swapped it with his fat cat.
MONTANARO: Whose cat did he steal?
KEITH: No, no, no no.
RASCOE: He found someone, like, on the Internet.
MONTANARO: He just, like, take the cat and just, like, toss it out the, like, ticket agent door?
KHALID: This is a very elaborate scheme.
MONTANARO: Really?
KEITH: He found somebody on Facebook...
MONTANARO: Just leave the cat at home.
KEITH: ...And got them to bring their cat so that he could do the cat swap.
KHALID: He must have paid him.
KEITH: And then he gets on the plane, starts Facebooking with his fat cat, his 22-pound cat, looking out the window with a glass of champagne. And he gets caught.
MONTANARO: Oh. I heard the flight attendant got suspicious when he ordered a filet.
(LAUGHTER)
RASCOE: So I think the problem was that he was bragging about it. Like, he probably could have gotten away with this...
KHALID: Oh, is that...
RASCOE: ...If he wasn't so public about it.
KHALID: The fact that I brought my fat cat on?
KEITH: Yes, yes, yes. It was that he was...
KHALID: Yeah, he shouldn't brag about it.
KEITH: You know, he was being a braggart. So kids, the lesson is don't be a braggart.
RASCOE: Just switch out your fat cat and just don't tell them about it.
MONTANARO: And keep your mouth shut.
KEITH: And keep it on the down-low.
RASCOE: Yes.
KEITH: Domenico, what can't you let go of?
MONTANARO: Well, I can't let go of this contest to give people a thousand dollars to binge-watch Hallmark Christmas movies, OK? If anybody has seen Hallmark Christmas movies - I have to remind some people. For those who don't know what they're like, it usually features a square-jawed, sensitive hunk, you know, with a well-groomed beard who's, you know, in some kind of seemingly platonic at first relationship with a nice, hardworking woman. But there's, like, some latent romance that they sort of chase after through this entire, like, snow-sprinkled show.
RASCOE: Is that correct? I thought it was usually, like, the hard-working woman is, like - she's working at the job. She's working really hard, and then she has to go to her hometown...
MONTANARO: Yes.
RASCOE: ...Where they only sell Christmas trees.
MONTANARO: Like, Evergreen...
RASCOE: Yeah.
MONTANARO: Yeah.
RASCOE: And then she - and then they're like, oh, stay and give up your hustle and bustle. And then she's like, oh, I - and there's this guy who cuts down the Christmas trees, and he's really hot. And she's like, yes. I'm going to give up the working world.
MONTANARO: Anyway...
KEITH: OK. I'll give it up. I'll stay.
MONTANARO: There's some degree of all of this to be true. Sometimes, they stay. Sometimes, they think about leaving. Whatever it is, the point is the company CenturyLink - and I'm not exactly sure why they're doing this. They're choosing one lucky person to get a thousand dollars for the task of watching and critiquing 24 Hallmark Christmas movies...
KHALID: That's a lot.
MONTANARO: ...Leading up to December 25 - so, like, 12 days of Christmas, 24 movies. And they recommend - get this - making a short video, quote, showcasing your Christmas spirit for a shot at winning. To apply, you have to be at least 18 years old, love Christmas and be willing...
KHALID: So you can't be the Grinch.
MONTANARO: ...To document and the movie-watching process on social media.
KHALID: Yeah.
KEITH: OK, so hold on.
KHALID: You can't - Domenico would not win this contest.
KEITH: Can't be the Grinch.
MONTANARO: I could win this contest.
KEITH: Twenty-four times...
KHALID: You have to have the Christmas spirit.
MONTANARO: But Christmas is one of those times a year that bring out a degree of joy and hope and optimism even in someone like me.
KEITH: And with that, I think it is officially the season when we're allowed to play Christmas music.
(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS IS YOU")
MARIAH CAREY: (Singing) I don't want a lot for Christmas. There is just one thing I need.
RASCOE: I don't agree with that (laughter).
KEITH: You do or you don't agree?
MONTANARO: Wait until after Thanksgiving.
KEITH: I had somebody tell me that with impeachment going on, it's OK to put your tree up now.
RASCOE: (Laughter).
KEITH: All right. That is a wrap for today. Our executive producer is Shirley Henry. Our editors are Muthoni Muturi and Eric McDaniel. Our producer is Barton Girdwood. Our production assistant is Chloe Weiner. Thanks to Lexie Schapitl, Dana Farrington, Brandon Carter and Elena Burnett. I'm Tamara Keith. I cover the White House.
RASCOE: I'm Ayesha Rascoe. I also cover the White House.
KHALID: I'm Asma Khalid. I cover the presidential campaign.
MONTANARO: And I'm Domenico Montanaro, senior political editor and correspondent.
KEITH: And thank you for listening to the NPR POLITICS PODCAST.
(SOUNDBITE OF SONG, "ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS IS YOU")
CAREY: (Singing) Baby, all I want for Christmas is you. Baby, all I want for Christmas is you.