Welcome to Pollapalooza, our weekly polling roundup.
Just a few weeks ago, the future of Sen. Bernie Sanders’s campaign was fairly uncertain. On Oct. 1, Sanders was hospitalized and suspended campaign events “until further notice,” and it wasn’t until days later that his campaign confirmed that he had had a heart attack. Questions about whether Sanders would stay in the race or skip the October debate abounded, but ultimately Sanders stuck it out and returned to the trail. And it seems as if his debate performance may have helped him bounce back in the polls.
In fact, this week, a new poll from Reuters/Ipsos found Sanders ahead of Sen. Elizabeth Warren, 15 percent to 11 percent.1 To be clear, in national polling averages like RealClearPolitics and The Economist, Sanders is still in third behind Warren, but when we compared Sanders’s pre- and post-debate polls, we found what looks like a small post-debate bounce.
We looked at all the national primary polls conducted in the three weeks before the Oct. 15 debate and three weeks after and calculated the pre- and post-debate averages for all the candidates who participated in the debate (excluding former Rep. Beto O’Rourke, who has since dropped out of the race). We first created a pollster average by averaging together all the polls from a single pollster in each time period, and then we averaged those pollster averages together to get one pre-debate and one post-debate number for each candidate. (This average of averages method means that if one pollster ran a lot of polls, it wouldn’t skew the overall average.) Although only a few polls showed Sanders ahead of Warren like in the Reuters/Ipsos poll, it certainly seems like his strong debate performance may have eased voters’ concerns about his health.
Of the three leading candidates in the race, Sanders had the largest gain in the polls after the debate, and Warren actually saw a slight decline in support. In fact, with Warren’s drop and Sanders’s gain, the gap between second and third place shrank by about 3 points in our average, from 6.8 points to 3.6 points. Technically, Buttigieg saw the largest gains following the debate — 1.7 points — but his national average is still 10 points lower than Sanders’s.
Polling averages for Democratic presidential candidates in the three weeks before and three weeks after the Oct. 15 debate
For candidates’ pre- and post-debate averages, we calculated an average for all polls from a single pollster and then averaged together those pollster averages. Excludes polls that were in the field on the day of the debate.
Source: POLLS
The fact that Sanders has made gains after the debate is bullish news for his campaign, though, because heading into the debate, the public was pretty wary about his health. In a HuffPost/YouGov poll conducted the week after his heart attack, just 17 percent of Americans thought the senator was healthy enough to serve effectively as president, and the share among Democrats — 26 percent — was not much higher. By comparison, 60 percent of Democrats said former Vice President Joe Biden, who is just a year younger than Sanders, was in good enough health to serve.
Americans were also not pleased with how the Sanders campaign handled news of his heart attack. In an Economist/YouGov poll conducted after Sanders was released from the hospital, the largest share of respondents — 39 percent — said they were unsure if the campaign had been transparent about the heart attack. The rest of the respondents were fairly split: 33 percent said the campaign was transparent, while 27 percent said it was not.
So going into the last debate, it really did seem as if Sanders’s health scare had set him back in voters’ eyes. And while Sanders didn’t see huge gains in his post-debate average, what’s really important here is that his average didn’t fall. In other words, Sanders’s heart attack may not wind up costing him much in terms of his campaign. That said, it’s not all sunshine and daisies for Sanders. While he seems to have a solid hold on third place, it’s unclear whether he can expand beyond his base and make a play for second or first. One thing that is certain, though, is that Sanders is a successful grassroots fundraiser, so he can definitely afford to keep campaigning in search of a bigger base.
According to FiveThirtyEight’s presidential approval tracker, 41.4 percent of Americans approve of the job Trump is doing as president, while 54.3 percent disapprove (a net approval rating of -12.9 points). At this time last week, 41.1 percent approved and 54.1 percent disapproved (for a net approval rating of -13 points). One month ago, Trump had an approval rating of 41.5 percent and a disapproval rating of 53.7 percent, for a net approval rating of -12.2 points.
In our average of polls of the generic congressional ballot, Democrats currently lead by 5.4 percentage points (46.7 percent to 41.3 percent). A week ago, Democrats led Republicans by 5.5 points (46.4 percent to 40.9 percent). At this time last month, voters preferred Democrats by 6.9 points (46.9 percent to 40.0 percent).