
S1: This ad free podcast is part of your Slate Plus membership.


S2: This episode of the Gabfest contains explicit language.


S3: Hello and welcome to the Slate Political Gabfest for November 7th 2019 the one year from this week edition.


S4: I am David Plotz of Atlas Obscura. Here in Washington D.C. Joining me visually but not physically is Emily Bazelon of the New York Times Magazine who I’m looking at over.


S1: Over skype Hello Emily. Hello. Yale. How are you. I’m good. Glad to be here. And then joining me not visually but telephonically is John Dickerson of CBS 60 Minutes from New York. Hello. John Dickerson Hello David.


S5: I am. Is it telephonically let us know. All right come on.


S6: Well look it’s interesting you said radio. It’s easier to telephone Oh my God can you tell me where I stand it’s not telephonic.


S7: Oh my God you’re being pedantic already on today’s gabfest election results in Kentucky and Virginia embolden Democrats. And then there are discouraging poll results in swing states for Democratic presidential candidates. Then impeachment barrels forward. What happened this week. What is about to happen and then President Trump withdraws the United States from the Paris climate accord. Is that catastrophic or merely terrible plus we will have cocktail chatter one year from this week we will have elected a new president or possibly the same president. And this week we saw the last major elections before 2020 and a bunch of states that weirdly have off year elections which are always cute but confusing because you’re like it’s an odd year. Why is there an election. But it’s still nice to have. And then we also saw some very interesting. And if you a Democrat alarming poll results for Democratic primary challenger. So let’s start with the 2019 results. John in the Commonwealth of Virginia the cradle of the Republic the cradle in fact of John Dickerson Democrats took control of the state Senate and the state house. Why is that important. Why is it overdue. Is it important and overdue.


S8: Well I think it’s it’s important well it’s for the first time in 50 years so that’s when anything anytime anything comes for the first time in 50 years. You should take note of it. Basically most people would say what this does is it ends the charade that Virginia is not a blue state. You know it went from being red to purple to blue and so they’re saying that it’s that it’s now a blue state and that I don’t know what I think about that debate. That’s fine you can have that debate the most interesting thing it seems to me about Virginia.


S6: The two most important results are first of all that the that Republicans did not win back the seats that they lost in 2017 when Democrats had strong showings in Republican areas and then Democrats won in additional areas to take control over the two state houses. You now have the two statehouses and the governorship all in the same party which means there’s going to be a series of series of legislation passed in Virginia on on gun control in particular that’ll be very interesting to watch. Why is that interesting. Because of the second thing. So the first point is Democrats are showing strength Republicans weakness in the excerpts the areas out suburbs and outside. And that’s something we’ll talk a lot about because it was also strong for Democrats in Kentucky and the argument is that if it’s been strong consistently in 2018 2019 that’s bad for Donald Trump. But the second thing that’s important in Virginia is it’s the home of the NRA the forces of gun control gun safety whatever you want to call it basically now have beaten the NRA in their own backyard. That will mean a lot for gun legislation in Virginia and for the for it for every town organization. It’s a model for inroads they might be able to make in other states.


S1: Emily quickly let’s also hit the I think probably the other big state for Democrats this week with Kentucky where a Democrat in a very red state beat the extremely hated incumbent Governor Matt Bevin in a state where President Trump campaign and try to tie the Democrat Andy Bashir to impeachment. Trump had won the state by 30 Republicans won every single other statewide office that was up. Is Bevin’s loss a warning for Trump or not really. Is it just like a particular set of circumstances with an extremely bad and hated incumbent.


S2: I think more of the latter. You know I wonder if people think differently about the governor in some circumstances than the sort of normal party polarized politics that we have. You know I’m thinking of the fact that a Democrat is governor in Kansas or Republican is governor in Massachusetts. There’s a way in which that administrative job can I think seems a little less political than some other positions. And I mostly just think that yes what you said there was an extremely unpopular incumbent. It’s true that President Trump couldn’t save him but he had been his own worst enemy.


S9: It’s a great question. But what I think will be interesting is if you match the suburban the next certain results in Kentucky with what happened in Virginia and then what happened in the same areas with the same kind of voters in 18 whether it’s demonstrably true that that will all play out the same way in 2020. It suggests enough data points that it puts high and heavy uncertainty in the air for Republican senators who are running in 2020 in places where they’re going to depend. I’m thinking of people like Cory Gardner Susan Collins running in states where they need those votes. And if Donald Trump and the Republican Party of Donald Trump has consistently been showing weaknesses in those areas again whether it actually plays out that way in 2020 I think it’s going to make some nervousness and change perhaps perhaps some calculations over the next year as Republicans worry about becoming a party that is just defined by the Trump coalition which is essentially non college whites evangelicals and and rural voters.


S6: And that nervousness again whether it’s true or not will create some some potential for some more destabilising action among Republicans possibly.


S1: I actually had a question about that John. It’s John Cornyn up for election yes. Yeah 2020. Yeah I mean that’s when I look at what John Cornyn is doing which is to not be as full throated around impeachment as you nearly would expect given that it is the number two Republican in the Senate. He’s a Texas Republican. I. That to me is a signal he is very worried that that he you know he could face something serious.


S6: Again these are these linkages we should all you know these are drawn in pencil and very lightly. But but I would also link it to what what I went on at some length about with Mitch McConnell the other a couple of weeks ago when he was asked about the conversation the president said he had with McConnell and McConnell basically threw the president under the bus.


S8: I think you can if you start to see a number of these things you see some again whether the distancing from the president is even possible. I think that’s quite hard to do for anybody but but just the more uncertainty and destabilisation there is in the world added to the existing highly destabilising behavior of the president and the people who are defending him it just adds more kind of frenetic possibilities in an already pretty frantic political world as everybody’s trying to gauge what the politics are going to look like on Election Day a year from now.


S9: That puts so much uncertainty in the system for Republicans to see this weakness repeated in these areas that used to be part of their coalition.


S2: And yet if you are Cory Gardner or Susan Collins or even John Cornyn aren’t you kind of caught in a vise like you can try to put some distance between you and the you know I would say most like crazy to defenders of Trump like Mark Meadows who just seemed to be saying I mean and Lindsey Graham like I am in lockstep with the president no matter what he says I’m going in that direction they’re stepping back from that. But in the end like there will presumably be an impeachment trial in the Senate and it’s very hard to imagine them currently voting to remove from office President Trump. Now I do think that could change. I mean we saw public approval of President Nixon drastically move downward during the public hearings in Watergate. But I just feel like from the vantage point of right now I’m not sure that this is like the either an angel or devil of being a Trump supporter or a Republican senator in the Trump era.


S6: You may be trying to maintain some kind of semblance of separation but how far is that really going to get you whether a candidate any candidate can separate themselves in a nationalized election and we have them even an off year.


S9: So of course you’re going to have on in 2020 is I think basically most people have been in the game say you can’t do it. You can’t get out from under a President. However candidates in fear of not being re-elected tend to do things you know they throw Hail Mary passes and you know Cory Gardner in Colorado which is a base basically a one third one third state. So Democrat independent Republicans split the state in thirds. John Hickenlooper he’s who he’s running against the former governor and mayor of Denver is a very popular fellow in the state. So Cory Gardner you could imagine again if you even if you stipulate that you that you can’t get out from under a president may still try. And why does that matter. Well that’s one guy in one state Well first of all Colorado is a battleground state. Second of all as we know from this president when a when one person does thing something that he doesn’t like he goes after them. So then it becomes you can imagine that growing into something more because then he’s attacking Republicans so what’s Mitch McConnell’s say about that and so on and so forth. So it’s it’s just as I say a possibility for destabilisation.


S1: I want to touch Emily on what is potentially the most alarming aspect of the vote on Tuesday which is as of Wednesday actually didn’t look this morning there were there was intimations hints even open statements from Republican legislators in Kentucky that they might not accept the results of that gubernatorial election. And there is a the one of the leaders in the Republican House is trying to confected this into a contested election which was you know about 5000 votes separating the Democrat and Republican. And this stunning kind of possibility that the how the Kentucky legislature which is dominated by Republicans might try to overturn the popular vote. I actually don’t think this will succeed for a couple of even if they make a real push it at which there’s no sign they’re going to one is Bevin has been a lousy governor even for Republicans he’s made them more unpopular he’s been unpopular himself. So why keep him in there. Second it is actually fun to have a Democratic governor of the rival party in some ways especially if you have a majority in the legislature. You can really mess with him and score points off of that person and that’s a kind of good way to spend a couple of years sometimes. So it’s not it’s not that bad to be in the out party if you have the majority in the legislature. But also I don’t think it’s effective to cheat in elections after the fact. I think it’s very effective to suppress the vote in a dance when it can be dressed up as some kind of principle of voter integrity. But after the fact when the vote’s already counted the numbers are there. It is not. I think it’s going to look a lot like cheating if they try to push this through.


S2: Yeah it would in fact be cheating and a deeply alarming if this happened. You know I will just note Kentucky already does one thing to suppress the vote which is to close the polls at 6:00 p.m. You know I think that you’re right this isn’t going to go anywhere. But the fact that it’s even being discussed it’s just these signs we’re getting from states. I mean we’ve gotten them also from Wisconsin and of course like the queen of this is North Carolina where if you don’t like the way the game is being played you just like throw the board up into the air and all the pieces fall in some other place you just change the rules. You know I don’t know enough about Kentucky law to know how the governor’s powers are distributed and who decides. But you could really imagine this legislature trying to clip the wings of this new Democrat coming in in much the way that the North Carolina Republican dominated legislature has has done that for Roy Cooper the governor there.


S10: Let us turn my friends to the polls for the presidential campaign from one kind of poll to another kind of poll there was a really interesting poll in The New York Times of swing states. John this week looking at how various Democratic presidential candidates might perform against President Trump in Wisconsin Pennsylvania Michigan North Carolina Florida and Arizona. Interesting that Arizona is a very legit swing state in a way that Ohio for example doesn’t seem to be anymore. Why were Democrats so agitated by the results of this poll and is it is this one poll significant.


S11: It’s let’s see how to pack. OK. So why were they agitated well they’re agitated because Biden’s only up by a couple of points over Trump in these six states. Let’s see Sanders was up a little bit and Warren was down. So I think there was agitation for two reasons one Biden up wasn’t up by as much as he has people thought Warren was down and three and this is the bigger point I think is a lot of people think stopped looking and thinking about the election in that way stop and take it basically boiling the entire election down to six states full of larger shares of white working class voters because that’s not what the electorate is about.


S9: And implicit in even doing the poll among some Democrats is the idea that that or they would argue that the Times poll kind of has its thumb on the scale in terms of this larger argument about whether the Democratic Party needs to quote unquote moderate to go for the kinds of voters in those six states or go for the kind of voters that might have even been part of the Trump coalition in those six states or whether the Democratic Party by being true to its principles and kind of more liberal vision can blow through turnout models change the shape of the electorate in those six states and other places with a kind of Warren or Sanders type candidate.


S2: I have a question about the idea of how significant this poll is a year out. Nate Cohn is the Times reporter who did the poll and talking about it said hey a year out is basically just as good as right before the election. And then Nate Silver the guru of 538 said polls a year out like not. Not that not that reality based not that important. What’s the answer here.


S1: First of all the answer is the polling gurus need to get different first names. It’s too confusing to have both Nate Cohn and Nate Silver be named Nate.


S12: I think it’s just a problem.


S1: One of them to actually well I feel like Nate Cohn Nate Cohn has has I don’t know Nate Cohn. I’ve met Nate Silver a couple of time Nate code it’s like definitely riding on the coattails of Nate Silver he’s like oh where’s that. What’s the hot polling name it’s Nate. I’m gonna I’m going to glom onto that.


S12: And the Times hired him and his parents would really shake. Are you sure. No I don’t think I know the answer to this. What am I supposed to make of these polls year out matter don’t matter.


S6: There’s a general principle. And then I don’t know I didn’t see what Nate Silver of 538 said. I did read in The Times the idea the statement that I had and I have a note here. Go check it out and see if that’s in fact true or if there’s like some important caveat. But yeah. The the article that went along with the polling said that on average in the last years three cycles head to head polls a year ahead of the election have been as close to the final result as those taken the day before the final result.


S2: I just interesting because like in a tweet you know what polls you’re out. But I’m not sure it will.


S9: First of all there aren’t polls taken the day before. I don’t think right because the days prior whatever. Right. Polls released the day before. Anyway the broader more important point is so much changes and happens you can’t. I mean you can say you can say that that’s been what the result in the past has been. But if there’s an instance in which past performance does not predict future results in this current political environment I think that would be wise. To keep in mind in that in that context. But I do think the idea that if the Electoral College is still in play in our presidential elections then it is important to look at the states that will that will matter with respect to the Electoral College. So I think looking at these six states makes sense and then we should probably turn to this idea of what’s the actual electric going to look like and then who is best set up to make the case with that elector.


S1: I thought what was the most interesting thing in Nate Cohn’s piece accompanying this story about his poll was noting what kind of people seem to be supporting Biden but not Warren or Warren but not Biden. Yeah and yeah. And that you have categories so for example there’s Sanders seems to pick up a bunch of young voters. When you poll who don’t want to then vote for Warren or Biden and Biden seems to pick up like a lot of people who don’t seem to want to vote for a woman.


S2: For example there seems to be a lot of just out and out cold stone sexism in the electorate which was horrified to read about it like 40 percent of the people but there’s 6 percent of the electorate is Biden not Warren and 40 percent of them was answering yes to questions that made them seem like sexist questions about the likability of Warren and female candidates in general.


S9: And I’ve said this before but this is basically votes in the Democratic primaries and caucuses are going to be about punditry about what your neighbor thinks. So you know Democrats are by wide majorities fine with having a woman president but they don’t think that their fellow Democrats are fine with having a woman president which means when they vote or they casting a vote for the person they think should have to do the job or they doing you know casting the vote for the person they think will have the best chance in the general action because of people’s predispositions about women. And that’s sort of what a mess that isn’t doing is trying to sort that out. Good luck with that.


S13: John what do you make of the fact that so this poll of swing states included these six states Wisconsin Pennsylvania Michigan North Carolina Florida Arizona it did not include Georgia Texas and Ohio which are in Iowa. So I think the presumption being that Ohio and Iowa are now basically Republican states and it’s going to be they’re not really swing states and that. But also there’s this last conversation that I hear among people that Georgia and Texas are potentially in play and Arizona is certainly in play.


S6: Yeah well I guess it means it’s making some bets on two things One is that basically the shape of the electorate in Iowa and Ohio is just Democrats are never going to do well enough to reach far enough into the white working class voters in those states or white rural voters in Iowa to beat. Also you’ve got you know you’ve got a Senate race in Iowa that will with an incumbent Republican that’ll tweak things for the for the Democrats.


S8: And so although by the way we should note. But just as a farm state here’s and we should talk about this. If you look inside the Republican coalition it seems to me Democrats would have some opportunities. Let’s talk about rural voters for a moment.


S11: Bankruptcies for farms are gonna be as high as they as they’ve ever been in 2019. The bailout to the farmers is now bigger net net than the bail out of the car companies under the Obama administration because of the fight with China and the tariff battles with with other countries. If you were a compelling candidate who could make the case to rural voters and you believed and again that where there is some things implicit in what I’m saying that some people don’t believe because some people believe these voters are gone and it’s all about identity not economics and therefore why should a Democrat spend a lot of time doing that.


S9: But back to your basic point David the Republican coalition has those two states and the Democratic coalition doesn’t have it enough in Georgia and Texas that this cycle they’ll be able to make inroads if you believe in a warren kind of candidacy a pure base riled the base up candidacy which is essentially what Trump is running on the Republican side. You could try to make a case for Georgia and Texas. But the problem is if you run heavy towards turning out the liberal coalition in those states you would weaken your ability so goes the theory in the six states that are that are closest. And that’s another reason they picked these six that have a more mixed electorate as the Times sees it.


S1: And most people see Emily last question on this topic. So Jon Chait in New York magazine some subsection of New York Magazine I kept reports one concludes that the leftward tilt of the Democrat candidate is turning out to be a disaster that they’ve lost touch with median voters. They desperately need to get back to the center before they find themselves with an unelectable candidate. Is it the case that that Warren and Sanders are essentially giving themselves Iron Crosses they’ve hung iron crosses around their neck for the general election. I find myself wishing that Moran had not come up with a Medicare for all tax plan. I really wish that she had just said you know it’ll be magic which is what Republicans say all the time about their plans. It’s always like oh it’ll be magic and economic growth magic. Do you think that you should be able to run away from that or is it really something that is going to dragger.


S2: I mean when people move to the ideological edge of their parties and primaries right Republicans move to the right. Democrats moved to the left. The ideas then you tack back to the center in the general election. There’s plenty of time. I do wonder about what these candidates are thinking in terms of not sticking with the most popular positions. Now obviously Warren wants to be able to attract Bernie Sanders voters and you know I had with zero reporting. You could imagine that she is trying to make sure that if and when Sanders drops out he full throated Lee endorses her. And so she becomes the candidate of the far left. I also think she believes in Medicare for all. And yet there is so much that these Democratic candidates could do for health care or for example on immigration with a path to citizenship that is broadly popular that one wonders whether it would be politically wiser to stick to those positions. I mean this is a question that people like Matt Iglesias at Fox have been asking for months. And when they you know put up the poll numbers every time it looks pretty persuasive to me as just a matter of pragmatic politics what looks persuasive fits with broadly popular positions that are more centrist and that actually could become law would be smarter like we are not going to immediately have Medicare for all. So we’re having they’re taking Warren and Sanders particularly Warren are taking a big political risk for something that doesn’t seem particularly reality based. And so then does it. Is it really necessary.


S11: Rae was so this is as you quite rightly pointed out this is always the problem with primaries it’s why people have think the primaries are part of the reason our politics are so messed up because everybody has to get into a very not only far left but also detached debate as a kind of way to signal to their electorates that they are more pure than the next person to your point Emily about what the environment’s gonna look like a year from now let’s imagine a Democrat wins. OK. So a Democrat wins if they win it will have been on a restoration ticket which is to say well we’re going to fix things post Donald Trump.


S9: That gives you a huge to do list. Just to start the day. OK. Before you get to Medicare for all you’ve got a lot of stuff to do to restore. And by the way most of it’s going to be overseas and some large portion of it is going gonna be secret. So there’s that. Second of all the intervening election over that year the next year is gonna be scorched earth. So how you’re gonna get this through a Medicare for all through Congress even through trying to use reconciliation after that year seems more unlikely than it even would be today. As you quite rightly said Emily you go to do you go to the left or you go to the left or the right in your primaries and come back to the middle but that also depends on a you know politics has changed a little bit in terms of the public square when you can make that case that you’re not exactly the person you ran in the primaries as being it’s harder to do that now. Secondly which of these candidates has the facility and ability to make that case. Or do they keep stepping on their you know their or their shoes tied together. And so that’s one question can they even get back to that position and then the question is What do you guys think that position looks like in the general election for a Democrat to to either undermine the president’s coalition or to build success in areas like the suburbs where you’ve seen some of these opportunities for Democrats.


S1: I cannot let this segment pass John without noting what is surely the most important electoral result from Tuesday surprising result out of New Haven Connecticut which just elected a 19 year old a 19 year old is one of its alders and this 19 year old won a staggering 90 percent of the vote. What do you make of the overwhelming mandate won by Eli Fabian whose mother is noted political commentator Emily Bazelon. Just how significant do you feel this victory is for the future of the Republic.


S8: Well fortunately for all those people who feel jittery about the state of the future and the State of the republic really about whether there is verifiable truth in these troubled times that we live in now I think not just the people in the in the quiet suburbs of New Haven and the urban centers of that city but also really across the country in the world can find themselves sleeping easier now as a result of that outcome.


S13: Emily mazel tov congratulations on your son’s victory.


S2: Thank you. My son is now in our city council so it’s going to be really interesting to watch.


S13: Eli is so excited and thrilled we DFS listeners have our annual conundrum show coming up live at the Fox Theater in Oakland California on December 18th and have a very exciting announcement which we have a great guest. As you know every year we try to get a very wise philosophical minded person to help us solve conundrum for you. This year no different. We have an amazing guest Adam Savage of myth busters is going to join us at the Fox Theater on December 18th. No one has done a keener analysis of the true questions Americans fret about about the real myths and blowing up the real myths. He’s so funny and smart and interesting and I’m so excited he’s going to join us so you can still get tickets for that show at Slate dot com slash live to see us tackle conundrums with Adam Savage again. Slate dot com flash live December 18th in Oakland public hearings on impeachment are expected to begin on Wednesday in front of the House Intelligence Committee featuring witnesses who have already testified behind closed doors. Impeachment it seems to me is circling around two main tracks first track is are Democrats moving fast enough and with enough clarity to maintain and even build public support for the process and harm the president undermine the president undermine Republicans even if they don’t break the Republican firewall and actually remove him from office. Second there is this kind of process question which is what is going to happen in this massive showdown between legislature and presidency over testimony tax return privileges witnesses. And how is the judicial branch going to referee that if at all. John let’s start with the substance of the week.


S7: So there’s always a ton of impeachment news these days. Some of the news this week was that Gordon Sunlen the ambassador to the EU who had been engaged in the shadow foreign policy along with Rudy Giuliani conceded he reversed himself he essentially said I misled Congress earlier when I said I did not talk about a quid pro quo but there was a quid pro quo whereby we were telling the Ukrainians they had to launch this investigation of the Bidens in order to free up the military aid that Congress had appropriated. So that’s a that was a big deal. There was this talk of a press conference that Bill Barr did not hold there on Thursday as we’re taping a one of Mike Pence’s key aides is testifying. What in your mind are the key substantive things that happened with impeachment this week.


S8: I think Sunlen was the biggest news because Sunlen said he told Ukrainian officials that military aid was tied to their commitment to the president. Sunlen as you remember had plenty of conversations with the president about this. Adam Schiff scheduled I think also the first impeachment hearing which is on the 15th November. I think what what is still at issue and then Republicans are gathering or are trying to close ranks the president has hired some people to help him with his impeachment defense. What is still at issue and this is very hard to put a finger on is whether the argument is that the president did not try to use his job to influence the government of Ukraine to look into Joe Biden that he didn’t do it at all or that he did it.


S14: But it’s not impeachable.


S6: There’s also a third third kind of nutty thing which is he did it but because the you because Ukraine didn’t launch the investigation into Biden it doesn’t matter which Emily will tell me if this is right or wrong but that’s not the way the law works. And also in Nixon’s case some of the things that drove him for office never came to pass resemble that particular defense right. One lawyer said the only way you can claim that defense is if what you were originally plotting to do is actually impossible. So build a ray gun in your backyard that uses marshmallows and golf balls as its primary source of energy mate that’s impossible shoot down your neighbor but damn it anyway.


S15: But he has to do that.


S10: But I think John the thing that makes me so despondent about all of this is that the record of the Trump presidency seems to be that the partisan divide is so strong that you will he’ll get away with this and the people people’s memories are so short and they there’s so many outrages that happen every week in this presidency that people are like can’t even believe. I mean I can’t even you know what Michael Cohen’s testimony. I mean every every month there’s something which is like wow this is really the breaking point this is shocking. No one will accept this like look look what has been conceded on the record that he’s now done and it doesn’t stick. And he and he so has lowered standards so much and he has thrown so much chaff out there and there’s so much confusion and so much willingness to accept misbehavior on his part by his supporters that people are frustrated and they are disillusioned and disengaged. And I’m sorry just to pile on this point one last point. Last week we were talking about oh there’s gonna be mass protests where’s the mass protest why is there not mass protest. That was this that was the subject of last week we’re just six days later and there’s been that that whole topic is gone. The idea that mass protest would come out of this is God it could come. No I don’t know people but I think people are. People have moved into a state of disillusion and inaction because they’re so frustrated because the president has done such a good job of destroying the integrity of the political system and and making people doubt doubt truth and and doubt whether they can get anything done. And and so.


S2: Well I think you have to sort out you think there’s more public support for impeachment. It’s just that there’s also this hardcore of Trump supporters who are not budging.


S9: I think you have to sort things into their boxes here a little bit. So first of all Democrats in the elections that just took place. Everything I read suggests that actually one of the challenges for Republicans is that Donald Trump seems to be an incredible motivator and turnout mechanism for Democratic voters. If the best turnout mechanism for your base is the president then it allows candidates to spend some time reaching into into parts of the electorate that are not a part of their base. I think the impeachment process to the extent that it goes forward and you are a Republican senator who has to vote do I think it’s going to lead to the president’s impeachment. I think everything you have said and everything we’ve seen and the tribal reaction we’ve seen to run down people of good standing in order to defend the president whose whose behavior whether it’s impeachable or not certainly breaks many of the standards that a lot of the politicians have spent their career saying must be maintained or will lead to the destruction of American life and culture. So I think the fact that people have held tight for partisan reasons. You have to bet on that. So I don’t think there’s anything that suggests that the Senate is going to vote to remove him but the process going forward I think does put again some of those particularly senators who are up for re-election and each of them in a position where they have to if they do say look this is bad but not impeachable then they do at some point have to answer. OK but you wouldn’t you since you admit that it happened but it’s not impeachable you’re also saying it’s OK that the president lied and that’s bad but not impeachable. I think to just have people on the record that’s a useful thing to happen. Where and how it leads. We don’t know but it’s good to have people on the record about what what the standards are and whether this president has exceeded them or fallen below them.


S2: I just want to say that I hold open a window for Republican senators shifting positions in light of these public hearings. Public hearings mattered a lot in Watergate. And I just want to keep the possibility open that they could matter again even though we live in a much more polarized time both in our politics and our media.


S13: Emily let’s talk about some of these process questions which I know you’ve thought about you’ve a piece in The Times about it. There’s a huge question about whether the House is going to be able to compel people associate with the president. His closest aides to testify or to supply any key documents for the moment. They seem to be saying forget it we’re not going to bother we’re not going to go through the legal process to try to get this even though maybe we have the right to get it just because it will take too long. Where do you see this showdown going. Or maybe there’ll be no showdown.


S16: So no.


S2: Well yeah actually. So I think that the Democrats are playing it smart right now. And what I mean by that is that you’re right. Congress has this right to investigate. It has this power it’s had it since the founding since the Nixon era presidents have been increasingly asserting what’s called executive privilege more boldly over more material executive privilege just means they’re supposed to be some private zone of confidential communications in the White House for the president so he can communicate with candor with his aides like that makes sense. We don’t know how far that zone extends. There is actually very little court precedent from this. The Supreme Court has actually never had a case in which it had to decide between the power of Congress to subpoena witnesses and evidence. And the president’s right to claim executive privilege. They just we just don’t know the answer. What has been remarkable although not really surprising about the Trump administration is they are claiming absolute immunity for any witness it who doesn’t want to testify. So it’s not like we want to litigate whether a specific set of material or a set of questions are covered by executive privilege. It’s Don McGann former White House counsel doesn’t even need to show up that litigation is all happening outside of the parameters of the impeachment inquiry because I think Adam Schiff and whoever else is making these decisions for the Democrats is seeing that litigation take a long time and he’s saying no we’re not going to get dragged into long court battles. And so there was this interesting detail that John helpfully noted for me this week where we had a lawsuit from this guy Charles Cooperman who is a John Bolton need has the same lawyer as John Bolton and he had taken it upon himself to go to court himself and say I’m caught between these two competing demands Congress is telling me to show up and the president is telling me not to and I don’t know what to do and I’m suing both of them and the Congress withdrew the subpoena of cup ramen this week saying basically like you don’t want to come. This is going to take too long. We’re not getting waylaid by this and you can see that it is like Congress folding its tent. But given just the time parameters of this kind of litigation I think it was the right call. And so I think you’re right we may basically avoid a showdown in the courts and what Congress is counting on and what is working really well so far is that if you have a willing witness it’s not at all clear that executive privilege is a sword that Trump can wield. And so as long as the people who are career professionals and Trump appointees like Gordon Sandlin want to keep coming up and giving this damning testimony against the president I think that Congress is going to forego the witnesses who don’t want to come. The most interesting witness we don’t know the answer to so far is John Bolton himself. He’s had a lot of obviously direct communication with Trump. He is in the middle of this. One could imagine that some of the leaks involving the damning evidence against Trump relate to Bolton and his people. But we just don’t know whether he’s going to comply with a subpoena again.


S17: Emily can we just put to bed this funny notion and as you say it’s laughable.


S8: But man it’s getting a lot of people who are in jobs vetting the president making this argument the argument that well yes he was he was trying to influence Ukraine but since they didn’t they weren’t influenced. It’s not wrong. We’ve already talked about why that’s not. But in law the reason that’s not the case with the reason we don’t want that to be the case is because we don’t want to incentivize people to make attempts. Is that correct Emily Madeleine.


S15: Yes it is an attempted murder is it.


S2: Don’t cry and we want attempted murder to be a crime because we don’t want you to be able to try to kill someone and fail for reasons that were outside of your control like you’re a really bad shot or whatever and that is still a crime and we want to be able to do the shoe bomber shoe bomber is spending life in prison. Last time I checked when you think about it it’s kind of an odd distinction because from the point of view if you really think someone tried to kill someone and they didn’t succeed like who cares they are just as culpable. But we do make that distinction. I mean think about drunk driving if you got get caught driving drunk but you don’t hurt someone that is a lesser charge or lesser penalty than if you hurt someone but you’re taking the same risk in both situations.


S1: That is a that is a really good question. Wait philosophically do you. Are you. I’ve got I’ve got another one open. Do you guys think you guys think that the him at this point attempting something and failing is as bad as attempting and succeeding. Like for example if you wanted to hire you could be arrested for trying to hire a contract killer and failing because a contract killer actually is a you know an FBI informant. And so it never happened but there are all sorts of steps even after you’ve hired your contract killer where you could have said your contract killer you know what. I regret that. Let’s not do that. And so actually you would have had a chance to stop it so maybe like doing things which you don’t fully follow through on. It does seem like you you shouldn’t be punished as much as things you fully follow through on. Drunk driving is interesting case because it’s kind of out of your control whether you fully follow through on it.


S14: Let me ask let me ask you this question on me which is that does the would the sentencing change if you as the attempted murderer or attempted bank robber had a special community position that you were running afoul of.


S8: So if you were a policeman and you tried to kill a relative you have to trust an authority in the government John. There you go. Would that change the sentencing. And then if you were to come up with a scale of people who have a special stewardship and trust in the government where would you rank the president on maintaining that trust in that ranking.


S15: Oh I would write the president high since he is commander in chief.


S2: And yeah we definitely have laws where if you’re in the government and you abuse your position of trust that is its own crime. I mean this is just I don’t know what to say like there is a way in which one of the most revealing parts of all of this are the length the arguments that people who are defending Trump are willing to make the length to which they are willing to go and I think obviously that’s the broader point you’re making. And you know David’s right. It is succeeding to a dismaying degree.


S8: Like even if it doesn’t persuade most of the country it is enough for lots of people who just want to look past this conduct and some people say to even raise the questions that people are using in bad faith to defend the president is to give them energy and I’m sympathetic to that because I’ve been you know saying for ever that fact checking gives energy to the underlying lie even if you think you’re doing your right duty. But I do think in this case one of the things at issue with any president and this one in particular is whether the the lengths to which people will go to defend you because the presidency is an honored post in them in American life. And we should all in some very vague sense rush to the defense of a president obviously a job created with fear of monarchy wouldn’t want that as its single qualification. But but but I’m saying there is a rallying around a president that is a part of the tradition. And therefore when you do something as a president knowing that rallying effect takes place you are messing with a public trust here. So it’s there is in these defenses and the extremity of the defenses you’re. It’s actually also part it seems to me of the case because when you were president you your actions are not cabin by the thing you did on a single phone call. They have all of these other effects which is a part of your job in your office. And all of those effects are built into the office. So you need to think about it quite broadly it seems to me it doesn’t mean that that you need to impeach or that you need to convict. But it does. It means that it’s much more than a single phone call and it includes to the crazy things people may say in your defense that have no basis in the human world that we exist in and breathe in today.


S7: Slate Plus members get bonus segments on the Gabfest and other Slate podcasts. So if you go to Slate dot com slash gabfest plus you can become a member of Slate Plus today all Eugen Zee Slate Plus members are you Boomer Slate Plus members are you Gen Y. Slate Plus members and even all you not millennial. Does a Gen Y are the Gen Xers like me and John Emily. We’re gonna talk about okay. Boomer so you’re gonna you’re gonna get it. We’re gonna start some generational warfare and you get that as your bonus segment today President announced that the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate accord official announcement. This is the 2015 Global Agreement asking for voluntary emissions reductions by most of the nations of the world. The president announced the withdrawal on the first day that the United States could announce its legal withdrawal from this. The withdrawal will not take effect for one year. So not until November 4th 2020 the day after the presidential election. So under any circumstance the U.S. will be withdrawn from this treaty for at least some period of time presumably a new president could put us back into it. But it will. We will be withdrawn for a bit. Emily it’s kind of not a surprise. I mean the president has rolled back emission standards for cars he’s loosened standards for coal plants he’s gutted subsidies for renewables you name it. He has done done it. If when it comes to when it comes to weakening protections for the climate and undermining attempts to decrease emissions. So is this actually important that he’s doing this yeah it’s important.


S2: This is the worldwide climate agreement that’s supposed to get countries moving towards saving the planet. You know the saving grace of this is that he had to give a year’s notice. And so this will actually go into effect the day after the 2020 elections which means that if Trump is not re-elected it could effectively be stopped. And it puts into stark relief the choice that voters will be facing and making in November about the United States and whether it’s going to be responsible in its reaction to climate change and whether it’s going to join with other nations in this like to play a crucial collective enterprise.


S7: So when it comes to something like this. So the Paris accord I think there are two different kinds of critiques of it one that critique from the right. Is this just really hurts American interests and hurts American competitiveness and it’s it’s other countries taking advantage of America and wrecking our economic growth. That’s the one side and from the left it’s this is a very this is weak tea it’s a voluntary set of goals. It’s not. There are no requirements. Why why does it even matter. Because no one even has to hit it. What why. Why is it important despite those two critiques.


S9: Well you just got to start somewhere. I mean collective action has to collect and cohere around something and once you once you build the formulations and the and structure for agreement then you can ratchet things up. We’ve also seen since the original agreement the targets which I believe are two degrees Celsius we’re now at one degree increase in some parts of the world I think and a quarter of the globe it’s already one point five. The problem has gotten worse by the targets of the original measurement. So that’s a problem and creates that sense of urgency. But if you don’t have something that gets everybody around the table and works towards these goals even if they’re somewhat voluntary then you have to kind of start all over again which is what we’re talking about if there’s a new president they would have to start all over again which I would just interject quickly in terms of turnout mechanism for younger voters in particular for whom this is a voting issue which again gives a Democratic candidate some wiggle room because if those if they’re going to turn out because you can make the case look climate’s really going to be screwed if you don’t elect a Democrat then that gives a Democratic presidential candidate some wiggle room with other parts of the constituency that they need to work hard.


S1: Although I would I would argue that the counter of that John which is that the conservative position and the Trump position has kind of morphed in a subtle way. It’s no it’s not really so much this isn’t happening that the full throated denial the kind of bogus denial which they’ve pushed forward have vanished and instead it’s moved into what I think is a more effective sort of messaging which is you just say Green New Deal AOC socialists wreck the economy crush jobs and that I don’t know that’s more effective as a turnout mechanism for the right than what you just described is for young voters on the left.


S7: But it is a I think it’s a more I think it’s a better argument because it is more realistic and it does have an actual it’s almost put the numbers on something that says oh yeah these guys are trying to destroy this strong industry that we have and take away American jobs and take away jobs and timber and fracking and in petro resorts.


S18: All right. Yeah it has to. Yes. Yes. Come on. I don’t endorse it. Yes go ahead.


S2: No no I just I can’t stand to keep hearing it for so long. We already even in our denial list are skeptic economy. We already are employing twice as many people in solar as we are in coal in the United States. Meanwhile though we’re letting China just like have this market. So this is from John Kerry and Chuck Hagel op ed from. For every dollar the United States invest in renewable energy. China is putting in three or just like ceding this whole territory even as the cost of producing Aaron wind is coming way way down and that kind of renewable energy is competitive.


S12: There is a huge economic opportunity here.


S1: And yet if you think about it as an economic question not simply just Oh green cushy green silliness it’s actually economics. This is where jobs are. This is where economic opportunity is. This is where growth is. And it’s it’s demoralizing as hell that that these people who claim to believe in economic growth and claim to believe in innovation in the future are just throwing it away. It’s maddening.


S9: It seems to me if you have younger voters who care about this issue and are going to vote on it and be propelled by it then what it does is it frees you up to make precisely the case you’re making and that Wal-Mart is making and that all of these individual companies that have joined together to push behavior that is renewable and that supports wind and solar that you can make that case to to save suburban voters you can say look this isn’t about this is about economic the economic future and development of the United States it’s not just about these you know Fuzzy lefty ideas. These are smart economic decisions to make about America’s future. It seems to me you have lots of free market private enterprise people who would who would join you and who would buy that argument. This is going to be an incredibly negative election. So I think there’s going to be so much ugly uglier things said about Democrats to caricature them or characterize them that that climate actually probably wouldn’t you know they’ll do uglier things first.


S2: Yeah but then we also have to take into account the disproportionate political power of the people who could be losers from this economic shift. Right. So it’s the manufacturing center it’s people in Kentucky and West Virginia and Pennsylvania who are still involved in coal mining and other extractive industries. And those folks really matter in the Electoral College.


S1: What I understand is like the people what issue is a proxy for what. Yeah but yeah the people who the people who live in Miami like if you think about Florida that’s a big state. People live in Georgia. Florida is a state that may well not exist in its substantive form in 50 years. If you live in Miami you own any real estate Miami and you’re not incredibly concerned about climate change. You’re a fucking moron.


S19: And so I just don’t I don’t understand if you own any beach described that many beachfront properties you own any beachfront property on the East Coast if you’re on coastal North Carolina and you’re a voter if you’re on coastal Georgia and you’re a voter if you’re anywhere in coastal Florida and you’re a voter and you’re not thinking about that as an issue like you’re just wanting to give away your most valuable asset. And the thing that you know brings you probably the most joy. So I don’t I find it. Yes you should. Yes. The Kentucky voter the West Virginia voter the Pennsylvania voter who works in coal country. Sure. They’re valuable but these these there are tons of people who are going to be affected by climate change. You know if you’re in Colorado and there are droughts that are hitting you and you cannot farm the way you want to farm it. People need to be attuned to their economic interests and b think Oh yeah. That’s actually an important voting issue for me which they’re not. Right now.


S6: Right. But. But if we look at those six states we talked about earlier Michigan Pennsylvania Wisconsin Arizona only in Florida in North Carolina fit in the basket that you’re talking about. So if you were having to make a calculation of what your overall position was that swept in as many states as possible I think you would have you would have to be more worried about how that message would be received in manufacturing centered states more than coastal states particularly if you’re a Democrat in your coastal at least I think you know you’re coastal votes may already be with you in Florida all right.


S7: Let us go to cocktail chatter when you’re sitting in your beachfront property on a deck watching the waves lap up ever closer ever closer ever closer. What are you gonna be chattering about as you drink and elegiac cocktail.


S2: Emily Bazelon I am so just this week about a story that colleges universities have been buying the names of high school kids who take the S.A.T. and don’t look like strong enough candidates to get into said colleges and universities. But the colleges and universities reach out to them and market to them and make it seem like hey you have a good shot. And then they reject them. What is the point of doing this. The schools do it to drive up their selectivity rates because that helps them in the horrible but powerful U.S. News and World Report rankings that continue to sort of stalk us like a terrible ghost of U.S. News and World Report which otherwise I feel like doesn’t even exist anymore. Who knows. And then there’s also the cost to these students and their families. The psychological toll of applying to schools that actually you don’t have a shot at getting into. And then the actual cost of paying the application fees the whole thing just makes me ill. And it is just one more nail in the coffin for the S.A.T. which I would just be so happy if we got rid of it forever.


S20: JOHN DICKERSON What’s your chatter.


S8: My chatter is kind of twofold. But I was reading a piece about going to Mars in the independent about how long it would take and all the things that would have to be taken into account. And it seemed completely obvious after reading it but wasn’t to me in my initial thinking about it that you know three years on a on a ship to Mars and back you’re gonna have to handle all your own surgery and. And like even small like kidney stones could become fatal in that environment where you’re basically in a tin can for three years. And so anyway I tweeted that not incredible revelation but anyway. And Paul McGrane said it reminded him of a story that you guys probably already know but that I don’t think I knew but which is about the Soviet doctor who was in Antarctica. Yeah in 19 1960 Leonid Rojas of who had to perform his own appendectomy because there was there was not a doctor or even a medical station for a thousand miles. And the snow was blowing and anyway so basically he had to use some Novocaine and a mirror and two friends one of whom was I think a meteorologist. The other was a driver to basically help him do surgery on himself and when he opened up his stomach he found that in fact the the appendix was about ready to blow. So he probably would’ve had one more day before it would’ve blown and then I think it would have been impossible. That’s a pretty amazing thing to do surgery on yourself and be successful which he was. He had apparently to stop at various intervals while he was doing it because he got a little woozy which you know fair enough but that was an amazing story of the human spirit.


S7: Know that’s much harder much harder. I’ll double dip a little bit first of all I want to alert everyone if you are a Philip Pullman fan you have probably heard that his Dark Materials is now a TV show from the BBC and HBO so HBO started airing his Dark Materials which is Pullman’s trilogy amazing. My favorite books I’ve talked about them before on the show and the HBO series. There’s an eight episode start which is just the first book The Golden Compass and I was the first episode ran this week. It’s great and it’s apparently from those who’ve seen the whole thing it’s gonna be better.


S2: So check that out but also deal with promise because I am afraid to watch this. I’m so attached to these books I’ve never watched the movie and I’m only going to watch it if you really care.


S1: It’s good it’s good it’s really good. I is it. They’re not as good as the books. I mean the books are on a saleable great but it is much much better than the movie and it’s so far it seems good. I’ll watch a little further and let you know.


S8: Also his Pullman had I feel like you took a little back on now.


S1: Well it’s too soon to tell is it. You know the first hour of 8:00 if I watched but also Pullman’s second book in his second trilogy. So he’s writing it. He wrote the His Dark Materials trilogy and now he’s reading it written writing a second trilogy called The Book of dust. The first book came out a couple of years ago it was called ad lib belts of ash and was terrible and now the second book. Oh I didn’t know it was true.


S18: No it’s bad it’s really bad so unworthy of the first trilogy.


S8: Well that’s different from whether it’s on whether the trilogy or just about right.


S7: Really bad. Anyway the second book The Secret Commonwealth just came out. I think it’s coming out now. I got my hands on an early copy maybe and it’s really good. It’s not quite as good as his Dark Materials but it’s really good. It catches Lyra at a wonderful moment it returns all I write catches Lyra at 20 or 19 maybe and she’s a college student and then all sorts of events from her past are coming back to to interrupt her and it’s it’s a it’s really interesting on her relationship with Pan that they’re adults and it’s got a lot of the adventure. Her demon demon her demon is her demon demon demon so it’s it’s good to check it out. The other thing is just a little bit of self-involved chatter which is I don’t think I’ve talked about this before but I am looking for my next thing so I’m going to be leaving Atlas Obscura we’re hunting for a new CEO. If you know a great person who could be CEO of Atlas Obscura let me know. But I’m gonna be handing the reins off there and doing something new and I’m starting to think about what that would be. And maybe you have a great idea for me. The only constraint is that it has to be something I can do from Washington primarily. So if you have a great idea please just send me an email at the gab fest email address and if it’s late dot com and I would love to hear your wonderful idea. Listeners you sent us excellent chatters yourselves this week please keep them coming. Tweet to us at Slate gabfest with your wonderful article or piece of culture or song or historical episode whatever it is. And this week it was a very David Plotz The kind of listener chatter that I got a call out from at Shaw of Shaw and it’s a story that ran in CNN and elsewhere about a boat that was trapped above Niagara Falls 100 years ago in 1918 hundred one years ago. It was a kind of an iron boat that that in a midst of a storm got trapped they had to rescue the two people are on the boat and the boat got lodged on a rock about 600 feet above the falls and it just stuck there it was there for 100 years. And this week it moved it hadn’t moved in a hundred years and it dislodged and moved around and it’s now come to a different resting place above the falls. I think it’s above the falls. No one wants to mess with it. No one wants to get near it because it’s too risky. But I love the idea of this thing it’s just sitting there for 100 years and then decides because there’s a particularly violent storm a lot of wind and rain and it’s like All right I’m going to move now. So nice story from shore off shore that is.


S21: It’s a metaphor for our times it is yes serious anthropomorphizing of Iraq that you just did boat. It’s a boat a boat boat whatever. Yeah well we give them we give them names and actually the Philip Pullman book the last one was called La Belle some of which is the name of the boat. It was a book about a boat and as we agreed it was there was a terrible shock that.


S4: Is our show for today the political gaffe that was produced by Jocelyn Frank a researcher is Bridget Dunlap Debbie Roth is editorial director and to Thomas managing producer Slate podcasts. Ellen pang in New York Ryan McAvoy in New Haven and Mr. Kaplan here in D.C. helped engineer the show you should follow us on Twitter. That’s like gab fest. We chatted to us and come to our live show on December 18th at the Fox Theater in Oakland California. Annual conundrum show with Adam Savage as our guest host go to slate that complex live. For tickets for Emily Babylon. Mother mother of a city council member and alder in New Haven.


S22: And John Dickerson Father of Dragons. I’m David Plotz. Thank you for listening. We’ll talk to.


S23: Hello Slate Plus how are you.


S1: I don’t know what age you are. Slate Plus I’m guessing you’re more likely to be in the millennial or Gen X age bracket. So you probably in the kind of thirty to fifty five age bracket judging judging just a guess because also that’s where John and Emily and I all are. But I don’t know. Maybe you’re not. Maybe you’re 16 years old maybe you’re 73 years old. I don’t know. But this week we had this very funny generational meme that is now spread around. Okay Boomer why is okay. What is OK. Boomer Emily why is it. Why is it. And why do it catch the imagination.


S12: Oh no you’re asking me or I can explain it the last to hear about this. Can you explain. OK.


S24: So essentially it’s it is a it’s a what lovely kind of dismissive tossed off phrase that that Gen Z folks the I guess I don’t know where you define gems. It’s like of sub 25 maybe sub 30. Folks are saying as a way to deflate the smugness of the old and it’s aimed at boomers but I guess it also probably encompasses us we are some boomers and the notion is these these older people are too often telling the young ODA to learn something and stop being so stop being so sensitive. Stop being so Whoa. Stop. Stop doing you know stop criticising us Stop stop talking about subjects you don’t understand you’re too young to understand and this is a quick excellent little dismissive phrase that popped up as a way to to to give the back of a hand to old people and it’s just caught on very quickly I’m sure it will explode and die very quickly too in the way that these things do but everyone all of a sudden was talking about it and enjoying it and even you’ve got this great spectacle of baby boomers maybe but we’re saying it was ageism and that saying this to somebody was was a form of age. Age based harassment and you should file an EEOC EEOC complaint about it. So John then is this. Well you know what why. Why are people why do people get agitated about it. And fun have. Why are they having such fun with it.


S9: Well because we are in the age of we are in an age of constant agitation. And by the way one of the generational claims against the boomers was that they were so self-involved that they couldn’t get past themselves and see anything larger which is what kept them in gated communities walled off from the greatest generation. And so some people see in their thin skinned reaction to OK Boomer evidence of the original claims against boomers which is that they were totally self obsessed and that basically they should relax and recognize that this is basically just a new form of the sort of get off my lawn critique which is you know basically you’re like a cranky old and cranky olds are sometimes out of touch. A new New Zealand lawmaker Chloe swore Brick was giving a speech about climate change and a climate crisis bill and he was heckled by an older member of parliament and cheap and she deployed this OK boomer. And then kept talking but she did it in a kind of unfazed. You know she just like dropped it in and then moved on it was it was well deployed because now the problem is it’s become such a thing that to successfully deploy it has to actually it seems to me to account for all of the irony required by the fact that it’s now been discussed so much.


S2: I mean just if you want to be really clever Is there any legitimacy to generational warfare. I mean I’m generally such a skeptic of this. It’s like who says when one generation begins and another one ends and maybe I experience and maybe I experience some particular bitterness because I feel like our generation which is called Gen X is the sort of past over the least powerful most inner generation and so I just don’t like this whole concept. I don’t know. I just feel like there always are young people complaining about old people the old people are always kind of thin skinned about it. They are also constantly thinking that the youth has gone awry. Like is this anything new or is it just like the usual tensions that we experience around generational conflicts.


S1: Yes it is the usual tensions we experience but I think it gets heightened and less heightened at different points. I I sort of feel that we are actually in the 1960s and haven’t quite cottoned on to it yet.


S25: I think the level of the level of social anxiety of social stress is very very high.


S10: There is the kind of gap on certain political markers it’s gotten wider between young and old. The cultural distinctions are very profound.


S1: I think that what you see around what people like our age called weakness and I think younger people do not call weakness because that’s a condescending word is.


S2: Yeah well it was an okay boom are of the same dismissive flavour right.


S7: Weakness is what older people say to younger people about their their beliefs about you know whatever sexuality Gen they actually know the word race because they know yes and well this has a kind of is in the ante room next to virtue signalling Anyway carry on.


S24: So I do think there is there. I think what we have is among the young. There’s a really deep disillusion about the future and anxiety about the future which is which is similar to what we saw in the 60s as as with Vietnam and with the later the later Watergate and the kind of sense of the loss of legitimacy in the system. And I think even though you would have expected.


S1: I think what’s what’s actually remarkable is that after the 2008 2009 financial crisis you would have expected millennials to be super disillusioned and agitated and they kind of didn’t end up that way. They ended up continuing to buy into a system and I think that the the youth of today are much less willing and they are they are much less invested in the system that exists and and therefore we are kind of in the middle of what will when we look back will feel as momentous and as contentious and changing world changing as what the 60s did. I just don’t think we haven’t we haven’t quite been able to see it yet. Okay. Boomers just one small tiny manifestation of that by the way the reason the millennials didn’t do anything is because they’re basically lazy.


S26: There’s a reason they didn’t do anything. No the reason they didn’t do anything.


S1: I know you’re joking that the reason they didn’t do anything is they were so they need to fucking scramble for jobs.


S9: They were suddenly found I’m saying lazy yes no I know I know I was taking the low hanging fruit in my generation but here’s the thing here’s the thing I wonder about actually though is that so when the boomers were being self-indulgent there was a there was a smaller group of the generation that preceded them that could recognise in the boomers what they had gone through. I mean they might have wrecked right. You recognised it like in private and so forth. But but what I wonder is now we are all as a culture more kind of mixed in other words you’ll see you know casual dress Friday and you’ll see you know in Silicon Valley everybody looks dress is the same whether they’re 18 or 68 and if. And so I wonder if it was a part of this dynamic in any way or if it just how it affects the dynamic the fact that we have people who do not fit in the traditional roles of adulthood in our generation the way the traditional roles of adulthood were pretty locked in in the greatest generation when they had their clash with the baby boomers. And I don’t know whether that how that affects the picture but it certainly does seem to be the case that you have people who who is a part of their daily lives don’t see any benefit in maintaining the structures of adulthood that used to define adulthood the way you dress the family kind of family you had the the way you comported yourself and so forth.


S2: Huh that’s interesting. I was going to bring up something I can’t tell if it’s related or not. I mean I guess you could make the argument that with all of those former distinctions of adulthood categories gone that maybe distinctions of language are kind of taking their place in marking the boundaries but between the generations and among the generations I’ve actually been thinking about this a lot lately and I feel like I’m turning into a reactionary on questions of language policing like let’s just stipulate there are certainly words and terms that used to be common we don’t use them anymore. That is like an unalloyed good. And language evolves and that’s totally fine. But I feel like I sometimes hear an obsession with language policing on the left right now that seems Manute and counter-productive and alienating not necessarily to me personally but to like large enough sectors of the American public that I really worry about it. And I mean I don’t think Oh I think okay boomer like whatever it just is a sort of dismissive insult and I wouldn’t put it into this category but I feel like there’s worshipping of language purity right now that is is not a good idea. Like people don’t like to be told or to feel that they’re talking wrong. And so when they do talk wrong like OK but let’s reserve the idea of talking wrong for really important missteps and not just like things that are very much still in play. And so for example there was discussion this week about the term Latin X which people on the left have adopted for Latino and Latina people because it’s gender neutral. But it turns out that lots of people in this pan identity of Latino Latina Hispanic those are first of all those words are all made up anyway but lots people don’t like Latin X and you know we’re talking about people from a variety of nationalities right from everywhere to like Mexico to Venezuela to Brazil or I should say a variety of national origin. And we’ve never really figured out what that pan identity doesn’t make a whole lot of sense to begin with. But then to impose a word on it that the left has selected for its own reasons that the people most of those people don’t like it just seems like a problem.


S20: Yeah well said.


S27: Yeah okay okay. Boomers now okay.


S7: Boomers okay. Boomer but I just said okay boomers because I was just saying goodbye. Okay. Boomers okay. Gen Xers OK. Greatest Generation. I wonder if we have any Greatest Generation listeners okay. Millennials okay Gen Y Okay Jonesy okay.


S12: Jen’s that have not even been imagined. Exactly. Good night socks.


S7: Good night clocks. Make it connect to recite Goodnight Moon and the great green room with a telephone and a red balloon and a picture of the cow jumping over the moon. And three little bears sitting in chairs and two little kittens and a pair of mittens and little toy house and a young mouse.


S1: And a comb. I’m sure. It me and a comb and oppression bowl full of mush and quiet old lady who was whispering hush whispering hush.


S23: Good night moon Good night. Room Good night cow jumping over the moon. Good night light and the red balloon.


S27: Good night bears Good night terrors Good night kittens Good night mittens Good night clocks Good night socks good night come.


S1: Good night. Brush. Good night nobody. Good night. Mush. And good night to the Oh. Old lady whispering hush.


S12: No no you just went backwards. I was I know I miss the way that you’re doing.


S26: And isn’t there Good night. Good night noises every Oh yeah. Good night Good night stars night noises good nights.


S23: Good night. Good night air. Good night noises everywhere. Right. Nice. Nice. There we go.


S26: It was a night. That was impressive.


S11: None of us had to read that book in eight years probably when I read that. What for me. Golly it’s probably. Yeah. You guys. For you a twelve year old. Yep. My problem is I would always fall asleep before we go because there was lots of whenever I was reading books it never got. I never got very far before I fell asleep and then the kids would be you know I think I can do.


S1: I think I could do where the Wild Things Are.


S12: I think you were there the night Max words were soon next week and were gone forever. All right. Bye everyone.
