
S1: This ad free podcast is part of your slate plus membership.


S2: Enjoy.


S3: Hello and welcome to the Slate Political Gabfest for November 27 twenty nineteen. The Good Order and Discipline Edition.


S4: I am David Plotz of Atlas Obscura. I’m in Washington, D.C.. Joining me from New Haven, from the campus of Yale University, where she is associated with it in some fashion, which I can ever remember. And The New York Times magazine also. But she’s not at The New York Times Magazine. Emily Bazelon. Hello, Emily.


S5: Hello. That was like more detail and introducing unnecessary uncertainty.


S6: Oh, yes, it was. It was also ungrammatical, too. And then John DICKERSON is off again this week. I don’t even know why. Maybe finishing his book. That’s okay. Gabfests stalwart. Jamelle Bouie, New York Times columnist. Jamelle Bouie joins us from Charlottesville. Probably. Hi, Jamal. Hello. And we are taping on Tuesday. So we’re we’re a little bit before Thanksgiving. So you’re getting slightly early gabfest this week on today’s show. What is going on in the Navy? We’ll talk about the Gallagher case and the naval secretary be made to walk the plank. I guess that’s the right metaphor. If it’s the Navy be made to walk the plank, then impeachment takes a breath, kind of after a wild couple of weeks. Where do we stand? What is about to happen? Is there more room to to build a stronger case against the president? And then Thanksgiving is here. Thanksgiving, of course, it’s a holiday manufactured in part by President Abraham Lincoln. What holidays can we manufacture? We are going to adjust the calendar. We’re going to fill out the roster. We’re going to find new holidays that we should be celebrating rather than the ones that we do celebrate to go along with our Thanksgiving. Plus, we will have cocktail chatter. It is very hard to figure out what’s been going on over the Navy and particularly over at SEAL HQ. But the gist of it seems to be the chief, Edward Gallagher, credibly accused of war crimes and convicted of one count of of criminal activity where he posed with a corpse of an enemy, will remain a seal and will certainly remain a hero on Fox News. And the secretary of the Navy, Richard Spencer, is out of a job. The Gallagher affair has introduced us to a new and disturbing twist in President Trump’s dance McJob with the U.S. government having corrupted the Justice Department, corrupted the intelligence agencies, gutted the EPA, libeled the State Department, he now is choosing to impose his will and disturbing ways on the military. So, Jamelle, you are a Navy brat. You’re your child of the Navy. Was this the president? You were used to the commander in chief. Having authority over your parents, I suppose, as as a Navy Navy service personnel. Was this the president just exercising his privileges due to him as commander in chief or is there something more sinister here?


S7: It’s a little tough to say, right, as far as the president’s privileges as commander in chief. It’s certainly the case that President Trump has the authority to say reverse a demotion. But also part of being commander in chief is recognizing good military discipline, military order, acknowledging and recognizing the chain of command and B, military process for dealing with soldiers who have broken laws, book of war and otherwise. And so even if it may be broadly within the president’s authority, it still is extremely troubling, right. That the president would take a case of a soldier credibly accused of war crimes, of killing civilians whose own fellow men testified against him, testified that they took steps, he tried to keep him from killing civilians and that this soldier, you know, is disciplined by his commanding officers on the basis of strong evidence. And then the president reverses that, not because he has any particular reason to think that those that everyone involved in this particular soldier’s case was wrong.


S8: But because he seems to just think war crimes are good and that’s, you know, it’s not illegal, but it’s like unethical and troubling and kind of runs contrary to the spirit of the whole thing.


S9: Emily, the president has now pardoned four people accused, credibly accused or convicted of war crimes, including war crimes at the highest order of murdering innocents. His defense or the president’s claim is they’re killing machines, let them kill or today. He seems to have said something about how he was protecting warriors. He’s protecting our warriors. What’s wrong with that theory of the case that these are, in fact, soldiers who are there to kill and if they go a little bit far in the performance of their duties, that’s that’s better than than the alternative.


S10: I mean, I don’t think we’re talking about going a little too far. These are either accusations or convictions about killings that took place off the battlefield. And to state the very obvious, the law of war internationally deeply prohibits those killings and that kind of violence because it’s so important to get people to set limits. Certainly when our soldiers are at risk and in a vulnerable position, but not actually in combat, we would expect other countries and other forces to treat them as prisoners of war or certainly as people who are protected from random, really random kinds of killings. It should be. I think it’s pretty terrifying, not only in terms of the message it sends about America’s values, although that is also terrifying, but also in terms of our own service members abroad. If you’re worried about the brutal conduct of other people, then you want to be setting a different kind of example and sticking really closely to the international rules. You know, the one of the reasons I say that is that people in the military are so deeply concerned about the message this is sending. It’s very much in line with how kind of Trump sees the world. America first, this like brutal, you know, Hobbesian vision. But I think for people who actually have to serve, this feels dangerous.


S9: Right. I mean, I think that where that falls down is that if you look historically, one of the great strengths of the United States, even though we fail to live up to it a lot of the time, even though we’re we’re terrible hypocrites, is are pretense that we are holding ourselves to a higher standard. And our effort to hold ourselves to a higher standard. And often we did a better job than those who are those of our opponents. And that gave us an enormous amount of soft power in the world that made us trusted and welcomed in places not everywhere and not at all times, but in disproportionately. We were trusted and welcomed and thought to be able to be, you know, a useful intermediary, a useful hold keeper of the peace. It made it much easier for us to win in the market and to win in peace. And if you think of you think of probably the most important victory of the past century for the United States, it was to keep a Europe that is it been at peace. And it’s essentially allied with the United States and become more or less the single market until recently. And and then to to oversee the collapse of an enemy in the Soviet Union that was at its doorstep. And that was one first. It was won on the battlefield, but it was won by the kind of morality of the United States and our willingness to hold ourselves to a slightly higher standard, some more of the time that other people were. And it’s going to be we will pay the price on this. If not today, then then one day. Jamal, I wanna go back to the point you hit on, which is that one of the things that’s so noxious about this case, in the case of Galagher and then a case of some of the other people that Trump has pardoned, is that it is fellow service people who are reporting and testifying against them. It is the military itself. It’s filled with people who know that holding themselves to a higher standard is critical for discipline, for legitimacy. And and what is that going to do to to how these these services operate, if that is no longer the case that the vast majority of soldiers and officers are probably going to behave as they always behave.


S8: But the problems have really been the vast majority. Right. It’s that it’s a good analogy. I mean, a good analogy by analogy that comes to mind for me are police officers and cops. That part of the problem with the lack of discipline for bad cops is not that every single cop is going to suddenly become like a killer cop, but that the minority of cops who may have an inclination suddenly have a permission structure for doing it. And I think what soldiers likewise the vast majority of soldiers and officers not suddenly going to become war criminals, but the small minority who have an inclination towards extreme violence, towards unaccountable violence, all of a sudden now have a commission structure. The president, the United States has essentially said that if you do these things, I will pardon you because I do not think they are actually crimes. And given that U.S. troops are still deployed around the world, given that they’re still in combat situations, it certainly does seem like if that minor if this minority of soldiers picks up on that message, there may just be more incidents like the one the ones committed by someone like Gallagher.


S5: And then the other thing is that for the people who did come forward and broke the code of silence, which is an important component of being in a unit like the SEALs, very no one has their back. Like it’s the opposite message, right, that you’re gonna get. Right. And like, that’s also means that we should expect to have less reporting. I mean, imagine how. Those soldiers feel like that’s that to me seems like a terrible position to be in.


S8: Right. Their colleague. They know that their colleague, they saw him shoots unarmed civilians. One report says that they intentionally mess with the scope and a sniper rifles, that if he attempted to shoot someone, he would not be able to aim properly. And so they know this guy is not well and they’ve all just testified against him in the expectation that he would be disciplined and removed from active duty. And I don’t know, I would feel really nervous about the fact that I just tried to basically like, you know, have the state take this man’s freedom away for good reasons. And he’s just been pardon. And it’s suddenly been empowered for his actions. It would make it would disturb me and make me worry a little bit.


S11: Emily, what do you make of the food for about why the secretary of the Navy, Spencer, was fired?


S9: Because I think his Spenser’s view is that he was essentially fired for attempting to maintain good order and discipline and maintain the integrity of the process or mostly maintaining maintain the integrity of the process around Galagher and Gallaghers punishment. And the White House’s claim or the secretary of defense’s claim is no. That he was cashiered because he was tried to make a secret deal with the White House. And that was the problem. Does it matter what the real reason is? I mean, is it is is. Does it matter?


S10: You know, I think it matters. I mean, it seems like those things could both be true. Right. That the secretary of the Navy was trying to stick up for the rules, but also realized he was in this very difficult position and so was trying to come to some sort of deal. I mean, that and the deal could be bad, because if you think the Galagher should have lost his trident and that’s a really important message to send, then you don’t want any kind of deal. And maybe even entertaining the notion was a bad idea, but the idea that the official who is like stuck in the middle would try to work something out doesn’t seem at all surprising. The notion that that’s why the White House and, you know, Trump’s defense secretary wanted to get rid of him. That doesn’t seem very plausible. Like he wasn’t doing what they wanted. He wasn’t simply rolling over. And. And it is also true that Trump’s the commander in chief. So he had the authority to make this call.


S11: One of the things that is so disturbing about this, these particular pardons, but in particular the case of Gallagher is that it’s that’s clearly kind of a corrupt inside game with combination of Fox plus connected lawyers get got Gallagher the the pardon that he wanted. Clearly, if you have a problem these days, you and it’s something that the president might be able to help with. You hire yourself a Trump crony or get yourself booked on Fox and Friends or some Fox show that, you know, the president wants once. And I mean, I don’t I don’t. This isn’t really a question, Jamal, but like what? What are we supposed to do about this? This is just it’s it’s this way in which there’s this this completely shadow parallel set of corrupt activities that can go on simply by by cozying up with Bernie Kerik and Mukasey. And then you’re OK.


S12: I have no idea. I mean, I think this is sort of low key. The problem of American politics right now, I’m not have not just that there’s like this shadow network of lawyers and then whoever who can help you get off, but also the sort of shadow information system that is a completely closed system. Right. That it’s entirely possible to wake up listening to Rush Limbaugh, you know, make your breakfast, watching Fox and Friends, listen to HANNITY. I mean, you can kind of go through your entire day completely ensconced in an entirely parallel information network where some of Gallagher is, in fact, a hero who’s being persecuted by politically correct, you know, liberals in the deep state. And it’s continuously reinforced by voices and people that you trust. And in the particular moment, it’s sort of one of the participants in this as someone taking in more information. It’s a president of the United States who then recapitulates it in public statements, thus strengthening the feedback loop. It’s varied. I’ve used the word a couple times now, but it’s very troubling to put it lightly. And I’m not really sure how one deals with it.


S13: Emily, do you know how to deal with it? I don’t know how to deal with it. And it’s I mean, you know, like this is the reality we live in.


S5: The country continues along. We’re all going to have Thanksgiving this week. And yet, like, it’s deeply disturbing and like this parallel reality that is not okay.


S11: Have you guys looked at the list of people Trump has pardoned? That was a kind of a sidebar for this. That list of people Trump has pardoned is so appalling, like Sheriff Joe Arpaio, Dinesh D’Souza, war criminals, Conrad Black, some corrupt Republican politician from California. It’s just it’s just it’s just a very embarrassing list. Not to say that, you know, some of these people, you know, the president should exercise his power. Pardon? It’s it’s a great power to have, but that he exercises it so politically and for such such extremely scummy people and not for not for the millions of people who probably deserve it is very demoralizing. Jamal, I’ll leave you the last word on this. Do you think this this story has any political legs? Is this a story which which. Because it has to do with the military. It causes any loss of prestige for Trump with people who support the military or know, because it actually seems like, oh, he’s he’s standing up for warrior culture and that will generally hailo him.


S7: And on one hand, I think there is a Daily Beast report that The Daily Beast had a report that Trump may be considering bringing Galagher on the campaign trail with him next year. So if that happens, I think there might be a good case he could make that this could hurt the president, because you would suddenly have at least the media and Democrats making the point that Gallagher isn’t accused war criminal and you’d have details about what he did in the public eye again, and that could move public opinion. On the other hand, A, there’s that closed information system, which means that the president supporters are not going to be buds buying this. There’s a fact that within the military, there’s a distinct public opinion split between enlisted service members and officers, analysts, service members are much more friendly towards Trump. That options are a kind of mirrors the college educated non-college tunicates split in the larger electorate. And so this is the kind of thing that which may even improve the president’s standing with enlisted service members. Well, further sort of deepening his hole with officers, basically the split between people who do who may sort of be really committed to a warrior culture and people who value the professionalism of the United States military. But it’s it’s sort of hard to untangle what what the political impact of this would be in an election year. It may end up not mattering at all. Write that opinions on Trump are just so polarized at this point that this will just be further fodder for people who don’t like him and will support their view.


S11: And for people who think he’s the bee’s knees, I’m just gonna make one final point, which is that, you know, get one of the things that Gallagher had in his favor is that he he’s like, what you imagine.


S8: Trump thinks the soldier looks absolutely like a square jawed, white white dude.


S11: And if Gallagher were a black guy or Latino, no, no chance any of that happened. None. It’s it.


S8: Maybe if he were black. Trump I think actually. Justice sort of. No. Yeah, I thought maybe.


S5: Right. Let’s let’s. Jamal’s theory of what’s your theory?


S12: My theory here is that Trump does like to show off black people who he helps.


S14: Yeah, it’s true.


S15: MRSA. So I could I could if it were like a Denzel Washington looking dude, you know, square jawed, you know, spitting image of military.


S16: But with the military might protect itself maybe if it were a woman. Absolutely not.


S17: Mm hmm. Well, it’s all right. It’s all counter-factual. I don’t. But we’ll see.


S9: Let’s look at what other watch. Who. What other war criminal if he’s gonna pardon in the coming year or so.


S11: Gabfests listeners remember, we have our live conundrum show coming up at the Fox Theater in Oakland on December 18th. That’s just three weeks away. Two and a half weeks away. Adam Savage of Mythbusters is going to join us to solve conundrum of all sorts, all sorts and kinds. And it’s gonna be really fun. That show is a joyful show. And it and Adam Savage is so funny and interesting and smart. So you should join us there. Go to Slate dot com slash live to get tickets. And if you want, send us the conundrum yourself. Tweet to us at Slike Gabfests with at Slate Gab Fest with hashtag conundrum or go to slate.com slash conundrum and fill out our form there. So slate dot com slash live. For tickets on December 18th.


S6: Emily, impeachment had a hot and heavy couple of weeks. Now it is stopping for Thanksgiving, sort of. It seems as though after the holiday, Adam Shifts Committee will file a report to the House Judiciary Committee and that will be the next step in the impeachment process. I’m I’m in easily confused person. So it is not surprising that I find myself flummoxed by all the various things that are happening. But there seem to be, as we take a break from the hearing, so many different threads happening, so many different kind of corrupt conspiracies, all of which were aimed at trying to implicate Joe Biden, trying to get to Taja Biden. But you had a lot of Giuliani this week. Giuliani pressuring two Ukrainian oligarchs under us who are themselves under threat from the US Department of Justice. And Giuliani seemingly trying to get them to do his sinister Biden bidding by offering them relief from DOJ prosecution. You had Devin Nunez colluding with Giuliani sidekicks. You had another FBI investigation or DOJ investigation of Giuliani about perhaps him channeling foreign money into a PAC. It’s just like a lot of stuff going on. It’s very confusing. Can you just maybe give the summarize what’s interesting or what’s important or all this chaff? What is what do we need to focus on?


S5: I mean, I think the chaff that’s important is what we can prove about what Giuliani and newness were doing involving the Ukraine and like how much they were directly involved or just ginning up false evidence against the Bidens in an effort to help Trump and in fact, the 2020 election. That all seems pretty important. You know, newness is like talking about suing CNN for libel based on its reporting.


S1: On the other hand, he won’t answer a question, a direct question about whether he met with the Ukrainian former prosecutor who’s at the center of the accusations. So, you know, be good to know whether Devin newness, art Trump defender or a member of the House committee that is doing this whole impeachment inquiry, whether he was himself directly caught up.


S17: I’m interested in that question, but that’s all you’re actually you’ve fallen into the trap, Emily. You’re very into. What did you want me to do? Well, no, I want I guess we come out of a step back. A step back.


S11: We’ve come out of these weeks of hearings. We heard from all these people. But, you know, we haven’t heard from other people. And then there’s is list of going on around Giuliani and Trump’s taxes. And while Don McGahn have to testify and it’s just there are it’s like you’re being poked in the head and also being tickled on the feet. And also, you know, and and also someone has stuck a red hot poker in your eye. Like all different things are happening at once. And how do we focus on what we really need to focus on? What is it? Jamal, what is it that we need to focus?


S1: I think you should call Jamal. Though I do have thoughts about the legal proceedings. But let’s give Jamal a crack. Since I failed.


S18: So my hot take is you don’t need to focus on anything. I think that the best bet going forward is to throw everything at the wall to investigate, to, you know, subpoena everyone who might have any information on the president’s scandals, to hear from everyone to kind of draw these proceedings out. I personally, I understand that House Democrats don’t want this to appear partisan, but the fact of the matter is it is partisan. And I don’t quite understand the strategy behind narrowly focusing on one thing and leaving the rest of it kind of to float away, to drive towards a speedy, speedy trial. I think the smarter play, knowing that if you guys have this on Twitter recently, that in just six weeks we’ve gotten definitive evidence that the president tried to tamper in elections to secure his re-election by having a foreign power or a foreign country sort of run a sham investigation of an opponent. Right. Look, six weeks, we have definitive proof. So knowing what we know about the Trump administration thus far, knowing that there’s almost certainly other shady stuff, just go for broke and keep the investigation going as long as possible. Nothing else. We kind of know from the past that Trump does worse in the public when he’s sort of in a maelstrom of scandal. And there’s the immediate instrumental advantage of keeping a trial out of Mitch McConnell’s hands for as long as possible, keeping this thing going, so that by the time it does go to the Senate, it might be summer twenty twenty, it might be fall 2020. There simply won’t be enough time for McConnell led Senate to turn this into an attempt to investigate Biden, which is what Republicans in the Senate already signaling they plan to do.


S5: Jamal, to play that like Nancy Pelosi card. At least I think not that I’ve spoken to her recently or.


S1: What about the what about the supposed political cost of the country, just getting tired of this feeling like it’s distracting. What are you doing about my health care? My other complaints about the federal government? Like that whole notion that this matters to people on what in Washington, it makes for great TV, but it doesn’t help voters in their everyday lives.


S8: So I think I’m going to go for the non pro-George version of what I think about that argument, which is that I think it’s extremely condescending of voters across the country in America. The American public can care about multiple things at once.


S15: The American public isn’t sort of motto maniacally focused on its pocketbook.


S16: It’s clear from the 2014 midterm elections that the thing driving the energy for the Democratic Party wasn’t some belief that Democrats are going to immediately solve all the problems that voters may face. But anti-Trump energy, a belief that there’s something deeply wrong in the country and this is the best avenue to do something about it. anti-Trump energy is if Democrats are positioned to win the election next year at all, that will be that is the proximate cause. It seems to me that the the smart political play is to actually continue to gin up anti-Trump energy, to lean into the fact that that is where the the winds for your sales are coming from. And this idea that, in fact, responding to the public’s desire to see the president be held accountable is somehow sort of not the business of elected representatives. I don’t know. It’s just insane to me. It’s an insane being to believe. I don’t know. I tend to think that Pelosi’s vaunted capacity for political strategy is way overstated. And I think that this is a clear case of her hand essentially being forced into impeachment. That impeachment being a clear political benefit for Democrats so far and that her and her team still basically being extreme worrywarts about what’s going to happen next.


S11: Jamal, just to belabor this point, what is your case that the longer this goes on and the more threads there are, that the American public is more has more anti-Trump energy as opposed to exhaustion? What’s the issue there? Is there the kiss? Is there polling evidence of that? I don’t have a position one way or another, but it seems like you’d want to know from a numerical perspective. Does this actually make sense?


S15: Right. So so far, there’s no particular evidence that the public’s gotten exhausted.


S19: If anything, I think what the polling shows in the polling is from pretty stable is that impeachment does better. The more that there seems to be sort of like a real serious revelations. And that’s sort of the heart of my cases that we know there’s probably going to be others. If this does appear just to be a fishing expedition, maybe it hurts. Although I think the example of Benghazi in the Republican investigation suggests perhaps otherwise. But let’s say it’s the case as a fishing expedition. Expedition does not help then shore. But if there are regular revelations, if the public is getting regular news about what’s happening in the administration, I think that that helps. And I think that that keeps support for a decent, at least at its current level, and may even increase it. And I. This is part of this is just sort of like not not a data base case or quantitative case, but just a sense about how public opinion and how the response to the president has been. We kind of know we’ve over the past three years that when Trump is faced with this, we see this the reverse. When things are quiet for Trump, he does well, his approval rating ticks up. The public kind of gets habituated to him because external conditions are basically fine. Right. For the economy is growing there. We’re fighting a bunch of wars, but the public isn’t really thinking about them. There’s no sense of sort of extreme dysfunction. It’s only when there’s a sense of extreme dysfunction that’s Trump really starts to suffer. And part of what creates this sense of extreme dysfunction is the fact that Trump cannot handle serious scrutiny, that when faced with scrutiny, he begins to sort of self-destruct. And so part of my case for just continuing this thing is that the more pressure the White House faces, the more revelations come out, the more likely it is that Trump basically begins to melt down. And it’s that melting down, which bolsters the Democratic case for switching horses midstream and returning to a sense of normalcy.


S13: That’s interesting. I mean, what’s interesting about that, Jamal, is it makes a different case about timing.


S1: I mean, the assumption has been looking at the legal proceedings that the Democrats can’t afford to wait for the courts. To referee their subpoena requests. And that’s been based on the past administrations experiences, both the George W. Bush and Obama administrations. Congress had these subpoenas that like went on forever in the courts and were unsatisfactorily resolved, even though Congress didn’t outright lose. So this week we got a ruling from the district court, federal district court judge in Washington, Kitana G. Brown Jackson. And what Judge Jackson said was that this initial very extreme position that the White House took, that McGann has absolute immunity from testifying is ridiculous. And like this, it’s pretty obvious as a matter of law. And Judge Jackson wrote what sounds like a super solid 120 page opinion, knocking it down. But of course, now this case has to be appealed and go up the chain. And then when it comes back, even if the ruling is affirmed, then there’ll be all these questions about whether McGahn has to answer specific questions or not, like that’s the real legal issue here. So that’s going to take a while then. Meanwhile, we have the Supreme Court staying an order by the lower courts that Trump’s tax returns should get turned over. There are two cases about this. One is about whether Congress has the right to these tax returns. The other is about the district attorney, Cy Vance, in Manhattan. Trump doesn’t have a particularly strong legal position in either of those cases. But if the Supreme Court weighs in, we could wind up with a major ruling. And it’s not clear what the conservative majority on the Supreme Court is going to have to say about executive power. There are some justices who are extremely pro executive power. We could be talking about setting some really bad precedents here. There’s nothing Congress can really do about that since the subpoena case has already been set in motion and the other one doesn’t involve Congress at all. But I. One thing, listening to you make that strong case for letting these proceedings play out is that maybe the delay in the legal proceedings actually just like runs on a parallel track. And the only witness for whom this like matters really is maybe John Bolton. I mean, he has been doing this weird dance where he sort of dangles the idea that he has information that he wants a judge’s order, that he’s allowed to testify. Well, just Judge Brown actually gave that order. She said that her order would apply even if there were national security concerns. So if he just wants a fig leaf of a judicial order or just like that, back up to obey Congress’s subpoena. Well, like he could testify any day now.


S11: I wonder if there’s going to Jamal’s impeachment now, impeachment forever, impeachment everywhere. I wonder if there’s actually an interesting thing for Democrats to try to do, which is that it’s now clear that these public servants that the these mid-level officials who are mostly career professional officials can testify and that they’ve done it and they’ve done it bravely and very convincingly in a way that has been very impressive.


S20: And I wonder if there are other scandalous things that have happened in the Trump administration, even things that we’ve forgotten, but which are hugely corrupt involving Saudi Arabia or, you know, who knows what else, China, that there are bureaucrats and mid-level appointees waiting to testify. And just you just have to identify them and get hearings that are based on that rather than trying to, because they’re never going to get the Trump officials themselves. You’re never going to get Don McGann to say anything interesting. For the most part. But there may be other people hidden in the bowels of the deep state ready to have their revenge and do the deep state coup that everyone’s talking about.


S21: I think I think I would describe it as a deep state, too. But I think that’s right. Right. Like, if you look at one area that I would love to see Democrats really investigate and throw the resources behind.


S22: It’s just what is the nature of the president’s relationship with the leadership in Saudi Arabia and the leadership in Turkey that clearly something strange is happening there. And that I think the public would gain a lot from a deep investigation of it. And if there are things happening, as if there’s serious corruption there. And I think there’s you know, judging from I will eat mighty shoe if there’s not serious corruption in those countries where I was trying to find a way to like be, you know, measured about this. Yeah, absolutely. Look, it’s obvious that there’s something extremely corrupt happening in both cases. And if the Ukraine thing is any indication, yeah, there are probably mid-level bureaucrats, ordinary civil servants who know something now. Now, maybe you have an opportunity to talk if Democrats investigate. Earlier in the conversation we were talking about Gallagher. I said that’s sort of part of the problem with pardoning war criminals or restoring them to rank. Is that it creates a commission structure for bad behavior. Democrats can create a permission structure for good behavior, for whistleblowing, for helping, for encouraging these bureaucrats and people. We’re dedicated just to the work of furthering the interests of the United States government to speak in public and to say what they’ve seen and to say what they think. If they think something is going wrong and I think they would be valuable in its own right. And again, as we as we’ve seen with the president’s response to similar testimony over the past two weeks, neither the president nor his allies are going to be able to say anything. They have no real defense. The only defense they have is the hope that this fades from public view. Tell it’s just not let that happen.


S11: Slate plus members get bonus segments on this, the gabfest and on other Slate podcasts. And if you go to Slate dot com fleshed out, that’s plus you can become a member today. And today we’re gonna talk about what is the idea, the concept. The theory that we learned in school, in college that it influenced us the most and still influences us. What is it that we actually learned that you still take with you every day to work? Emily Bazelon and Jamelle Bouie go to Slate.com. Flash Gap has plus to become a member today and listen to that bonus segment. Abraham Lincoln effectively created Thanksgiving as a national holiday. It had a kind of previous existence. He he calcified it on the calendar as the fourth Thursday. In November, it was at. I didn’t realize the history, at least it actually is some getthis burgi kind of celebration quality to it. He announced it in October of 1863. It seems to have been associated with with some sort of celebration of Gettysburg. And so that was what put Thanksgiving on the calendar. FDR moved it around a little bit, but it’s remained. It’s bits. So it’s a manufactured holiday. It’s a holiday that has been given a great history. And and now is, as we’ve discussed, Emily and I have certainly discussed many, many times and certainly my favorite holiday and it’s the only it’s the best American holiday, in my view. And because it’s Thanksgiving week and we don’t have a lot of time and you guys don’t wanna hear some more heavy duty political discussion on a week like this, you’re cooking your mashed potatoes. We thought we would do a third segment that was a little bit more speculative, speculative about how to remake the calendar, what new holidays America needs. What is it that we could add to the to the holiday calendar and maybe what should we subtract from the holiday calendar that would make that would make us all excited. That would make people find a new celebration. That would bring them joy. So we can do this roundtable or we can just sort of start talking. I have a couple of ideas. But Emily, a ladies choice. Go ahead. What do you want to add or subtract?


S5: OK, well, so my first thought about this and I am now channeling my son, Simon, is that we should have a federal holiday once a month so that there is a three day weekend once a month. And we already have some of the months covered, but not all of them. Now, I don’t mean in suggesting this that there should be less school. I think we should add days to the school calendar if that’s necessary, though I don’t have a strong position on how many total days there should be. I do think the length of the summer in places that have like the long two and a half, three months summer is that’s been shown to just be like bad for kids learning overall, especially low income kids who don’t have lots of great summer opportunities. I do think, though, that the three day weekend, once a month would just be great as a break and that we should try to really like do a better job of protecting it as a real break. Can I. So that’s my.


S11: Okay. That’s it for. Okay. Can I argue with you. But not not that it’s not a good idea. It’s a good idea. I think what I find interesting about the holidays that matter is that they actually come. They they have logic behind them have history, they have tradition, they have feeling behind them and so. So yes. So yeah, we’ll have a three day weekend. But to me, it would make it valuable. If you say this is this three day weekend is to say it’s Labor Day or it is. It is. I mean one holiday I would it’s National Park Day. It’s National Park Weekend. So this is the this is the the three day weekend. This is the holiday which honors National Park. So a lot of people be like go to national parks, just re-admission, admission, national parks or whatever.


S17: Given love that give it some give it some structure, some identity, some symbolism symbol. I totally agree. I agree. I don’t think we do not just like three day weekend, like, oh, yeah, Friday is off or Monday is off.


S5: Its well, like the Washington Lincoln birthday weekend is the vaguest maybe an account or a Veterans Day which hasn’t really like. I don’t know. Yes, I agree. I think that’s true. I mean, one obvious day to add is voting day national celebrate voting actually vote on that day. Make it so much easier for people to vote. And we’re really honoring that as a civic holiday. Elections are now. Jamal, thoughts?


S19: I’m 100 percent for a holiday. I think people should work less. I think there should be four day workweeks. And I’m you know, what’s the use in living in a rich country? People can take time off. I have like a whole list of holidays I’d like to see. And I agree with David that it does help if they’re historically resonant, that they are that they have some greater symbolic value. And so I for years thought that. Right. The Juneteenth should be a national holiday.


S23: Everyone gets a day off and you can kind of make it sort of a national emancipation day for celebrating me into slavery. I think that would be really great. Yeah.


S21: I mean, there’s a Susan B Anthony Day in February. So why don’t like try to make some day in the year be basically a suffrage day, like in celebration of women’s suffrage, everyone gets a day off to celebrate the advance of democracy. And maybe that’s true to put that that a template like there were we we declared days off for events that represented like the broadening of American democracy now way they’re nice and inclusive and everyone can feel good about them.


S5: Who are you giving me an idea? Fourteenth Amendment Day? Oh, hell yeah. That’s like such an important reconstruction amendment right. I would be a way of both celebrating reconstruction and looking at the expansion of our rights to liberty, to due process, etc..


S17: You guys just not to be. Not to be. We’ve called Walter White. You’ve added you’ve had a Juneteenth, the 14th Amendment, Susan B, Anthony Day. That’s like that’s. It’s like there’s a little over field you get up to. We’ll get two of those, two of those, but not three, go form a committee and get two. I think mid-summer should be a holiday.


S20: So I think that day I think the June 21st, because it’s the longest day of the year, it’s like especially when you’re far north. It’s just so lovely to have that long day. And every it should be a day of picnic, a day of parties. People should kids should get to stay up all night that night. I think that that would be a great tradition. You have that in in Scandinavian countries and people are really moved by it. And I think we should we should adopt a piece of that.


S6: And I think there should be maybe there should be some sciency day, but I don’t know what it would be like. A moon landing. Not sure. I definitely think National Parks Day, there should be a National Parks Day or parks.


S24: I think that’s that’s. I think it’s a really good idea to.


S17: Yeah. Include the city parks. State parks are awesome. Definitely election day.


S5: I kind of want there to be game day like, you know, that Jewish holiday log. But there where it’s like the end of the counting of the Ulmarra, which is just like some number of days passed. Anyway, the end of it is like games, right? That was always the fun day at Hebrew school. What do you got to go outside and play games? I like the idea of like capture the flag and hide and go seek for adults, for everybody. Escape rooms could have a really busy agenda down that day.


S8: All right. I’m all about more civically themed holidays, so there should be a ratification day to celebrate the ratification of the constitution, which is just as important as the actual writing.


S20: That’s good. All right. That seems good.


S5: That’s a good one. It could be combined now. It’s July 4th. Although the Constitution needs its own separate day from the Declaration of Independence.


S24: Oh, I think that the declaration gets its own day. What is it? It was this it was June 21st, 1788. Is that when a certain number of states had done it? That’s midsummer. Midsummer. It’s summer day.


S25: Perfect. Could have ratification in midsummer. This kind of not that a line. I would say that you didn’t like have this sort of chaos, a good summer.


S26: And also think seriously about the glory of ratification.


S24: Yeah. All right. Well, we’re just getting started. I mean, I would do things like make Labor Day more of like an explicit sort of like militant labor holiday.


S27: But, yes, labor history. Really? Would that be fun? Yeah. What would that what would people like? Why would they enjoy that? I don’t know. I would enjoy it. They learn stuff, but people don’t use holidays to learn things.


S11: They use holidays to gather or to have activity. It’s the holidays are not an occasion for for for knowledge. They’re an occasion for commonality and joy and and release.


S8: So I don’t think I think I don’t know. Doesn’t mean we can’t use them to instill good Republican values.


S28: Yeah. We always watch MLK as I have a dream speech on MLK Day. Do you really?


S6: Yeah, that’s nice. You’re good. What a good person you are. All right. Jeff faithlessness If you have if you have ideas for great new holidays, please send them to us at. Tweet them to us at âTS like DFW or or go to the Facebook page. Facebook.com fleshed out first and give us some ideas there. Let’s go to cocktail chatter. So when you are having your pumpkin spice, pumpkin spice martini, Emily, over Thanksgiving. What are you gonna be chattering about?


S5: I read such an interesting article about Joe Biden this week. We didn’t talk about the Democrats. I was happy to have a break from them.


S28: But this article in The Atlantic about Biden as a stutterer, the thesis being that he is still suffering in some way from a fear of stuttering and that this is partly explains his gaffes in talking. I don’t think it fixes all of them, but it does get to some of them. It really made me have a lot more sympathy for Joe Biden and just a kind of explanation of what’s going on. And the key thing about the piece is that it’s by a guy named John Hendrickson, who is himself a stutterer. And the insight he brought and the kind of paphos of how the Biden campaign first like ignored him, didn’t want to grant him an interview, and then seems to have realized that it was probably in Biden’s interests to have this angle explored more. It’s really good. It’s in the Atlantic in their January February issue and also posted online.


S8: Jamal, what are you going to chatter about this past Sunday’s episode of HBO? Watchmen, while HBO is Watchmen, is a it’s an adaptation destined for a strange what it is. It’s sort of a IDN universe sequel.


S19: Slash remakes of a 12ish You Can’t book series in the 80s by writer Alan Moore and artist Dave Gibbons called Watchmen and Watchmen, sort of an important comic book series because it’s like the seminal kind of deconstruction of comic books series that Alan Moore and Gibbons use sort of these classic characters and archetypes to deconstruct the superhero genre, to think deeply about what these characters represent, to think deeply about the kind of world that would produce them, and kind of comment on America and the UK in the 1980s and sort of in this in a moment of turmoil and tension and inequality and so on, so forth. Really groundbreaking work, really important in the HBO series is jumping off of that in the first five episodes have kind of touched on some of those elements of the series, but have really been they’ve been think concern of building an independent story. But this past sixth episode, it called this extraordinary being is a direct commentary and a lot of ways onto the original comic series. And Recontextualize is a key part of that series in a way that I think completely makes you rethink what the show is doing and what the comic book was doing. And is it really just like fascinating piece of narrative storytelling in addition to being a very well directed and well performed piece of television? So I don’t want to go into any more detail because I don’t want to spoil things for people. But it was a remarkable episode of television. It sort of is commenting on the current series. HBO as watchman’s interest in America’s history of racial injustice.


S16: And I didn’t I was just blown away the first time I saw it. And I’ve watched that episode three times now and each time find something new to glean, permitted to really a remarkable piece of television.


S5: Can I skip ahead to this Episode 6, which now I’m interested in, even if I’ve only seen the first couple of episodes? Or is that a terrible idea?


S29: It’s really worth like what you really worth watching. The first up. So there’s not so much that each episode is Episode 6 is narratively dependent on most previous episodes. But I think sort of fully being immersed in the world will help a lot. Like you don’t need to read the comics, the original comics I think for this. But it does. I think it helps to have progressed through the series where I have a second service question.


S24: Hi.


S11: I just started reading the book. Yes, do I? Which I like. I like pretty much like it. I’m not I’m not a real comics person, but I’m liking it. OK. Should I finish it before I watch the show?


S29: If you’re already reading it, why not? Okay. Yeah, babe. I mean, the tricky thing is, is that the world of the comic book.


S15: Like if you’ve read it, there’ll be things you notice and like things you pick up on that are fun, but it’s not really narratively critical. And even the sixth episode, which is a commenting directly on the comic book, is not necessarily narratively critical. Treat it because the show does a good job of situating your situating. The key points you can just watch so you get there. I think I think that the value of reading the comic book. If anything, it’s just sort of like get yourself in the mindset of like what the Watchmen style is, which is sort of not just this, like the story of superheroes, sort of like very astute, like meta commentary on lots of different things and a visual style that is sort of they’re very dense with detail. The other thing I liked about the comic quite a bit is that you could read a dozen times, just depending on how you look at the panels, how you focus on the panels. You’ll notice different elements, different things in that kind of fact that I think carries over to the series as well, I think.


S11: All right. My chatter. So it’s Thanksgiving. So I’d like to give thanks to my Thanksgiving chatter.


S30: And I’ve had a head of really tough and heartbreaking year this year. And one way to get through hard times is through country music. And so I wanted to give thanks and recommendations to the women of country music who have been the soundtrack of my bad year. So I want to say happy Thanksgiving to Ashley Monroe and Marin Morris and Brandi Carlile and Emmylou Harris and Jody Masina and Kacey Musgraves and Lucinda Williams and Iris DEMENT and Loretta Lynn. I wish you many, many tears, ladies, in the coming year. So you’ll have great new songs for me. So thank you for being such a such a so supportive of me in the past year. And and may you have another miserable year.


S17: Listeners, you have given us a good list. I like that list. Yeah, well, there’s plenty plenty more on it. Plenty more on it. Merry Haven carpenter Ashley McBride. I like Ashley of all sorts. Dolly Parton, Patsy Cline. I was thinking Dolly Parton was missing. I’m glad you threw.


S11: Oh, yeah, yeah. Here you come again. That is a song that I really love. That is a great song. So, listeners, you again, as usual, did yourselves with your listener chatter.


S30: You’ve been tweeting them to us at Slate Gabfest. And again, like, let’s do it. Jolly one, a jolly chatter from Rachel Johnston p_h_d_ at At Reach M. Johnston. And she sends us a story about firefighters saving the day. And that’s the story from, I think, a Chicago newspaper about a boy who was having a birthday party. I think he’s a seven year old boy. And a lot of people said they were coming and nobody showed up at the birthday party. And these firefighters were down the street, just heard about it. Someone mentioned to them and they showed up at this birthday party and had a birthday party with this boy. And it’s just it’ll make you cry. I wept reading the story. Super cute story. So check it out. That is our gabfests for today. The show was produced by Josslyn Frank.


S3: Our researcher is Bridget Dunlap.


S4: Ryan MacAvoy helped out Emily Gail, Rosemary Belton. Help me out here in D.C.. Gabriel Roth is editorial director of Slate podcast, John Thomas, managing producer to follow us on Twitter at Slate Gabfest and send chatter to us there and send your conundrums to. There with the hashtag conundrum. And you should come to our conundrum show in Oakland, California, on December 18th at the Fox Theater. Go to slate.com, slash live there. Still tickets there for Emily Bazelon and Jamelle Bouie. What are you guys going to eat? Jamal, what is your distinctive Thanksgiving food that you’re going to eat on Thursday?


S31: We’re going to have collard greens and mac and cheese and stuffing. The thing I’m excited to make, it’s very simple, which is whole roasted carrots with garlic and dill.


S32: Yummy, yummy.


S31: And I have some other things on the menu. Can a bake a sweet potato pie is always going to make it salty.


S32: Honey pie, which my parents haven’t had before, but I make every year so good. Wait, did you say salty, honey?


S31: Yes, it’s a it’s a honey custard that I just finished with flaky sea salt.


S11: Yes, I know a pie like that. That sounds delicious. That sounds really good. Emily.


S30: What? I’ll eat that. What what’s the thing that you’re going to eat that you’re looking forward to?


S33: I always make apple pie. That’s my whole some basic contribution. I know it’s not super exciting, but I’m not a big pie maker. So just my making pie. It all makes my husband in particular happy.


S32: You’re very good, Baker in general. My experience that I’m not like a pie.


S4: Usually like you, but for me, although I’m not going to make any pies. I got other duties, but it will be my mother’s Moka chocolate crunch pie. I strongly recommend there’s a recipe for it on Slate somewhere. It’s the greatest dish anyone has ever made. Yummy. It is unbelievably good.


S34: So I hope you all have a wonderful Thanksgiving. Thank you for listening. We’ll talk to you next week.


S11: Hello. Slate plus. So. Slate plus today. Why not? Why not talk about what we learned and what’s stuck with us, so I was thinking I have a daughter who’s in college and then son in high school, another son in sixth grade. But I was talking to both my daughter and my my middle son this week and just struck at them. Been learning certain concepts or learning ideas that I remember learning myself or have already forgotten. And then you think back like, well, well, what did I learn? What did I ever learn in school anyway? Obviously, you create all sorts of knowledge. But but I was interested in sort of what the what the theory that stuck with you hardest, the things that you either used or like have become a defining metaphor for how you see the world or just words. For some reason, we’re were super vivid for you. And I wondered what that was for you guys. And I have three myself.


S28: But I want you to start with this one.


S11: I can start with I’ll start with one of them. I think the one concept in biology or maybe evolutionary biology, I’m not sure what you call it, but it’s stuck with me is the idea of K strategies versus our strategies.


S20: You guys remember what that is? No. In reproduction. So a K strategy is a creature that has a few but very expensive offspring. So us where you give your your offspring a ton of care, you really are there. They just ate for a long time. You individuate them. You know, it’s an elephant. It’s a giraffe. It’s us. And our strategy is where you just have like a good zillion offspring. Don’t give them any care. Just toss them out. Your classic like fish, your fish strategy, your sea turtle strategy. Like, where are you going? To have a ton of them? Maybe a few. And we’re gonna survive. We’re not going to really give them any care. And it’s a very useful way of understanding biology, I suppose, and how certain creatures pursue different strategies. It’s also really useful when you start to think about different ways of approaching problems in life, like there’s certain kinds of problems which you want to approach by giving it a huge amount of care and attention and time. And there are other problems which are like, you know what, we’ll just try a million different things. Some homework, some of what we won’t invest too much energy into and see what happens. And I find that a very useful metaphor for a lot of the time. That’s fascinating. Emily, what’s something you’ve learned once?


S1: Sometimes I just feel overwhelmed by all the things I haven’t learned. But I’m going to answer in the affirmative. So utilitarian theory occupies me a lot. I don’t entirely subscribe to it, but I think about it as a template often for deciding how much I care about something. So Jeremy Bentham and Cesar Bakara talking about the idea that you only punish people to the point where you’re getting a clear benefit of deterrence from it to kind of oversimplify their theory and just the notion that the greater happiness often has a role to play in evaluating moral or political decision making. I like I said, I don’t absolutely subscribe to it, but it it has shaped a lot of my thinking.


S11: Jamal, is there anything you’ve learned over the years?


S23: So there are many things I’ve learned, but there’s one thing that’s always stuck with me. I took a lot of philosophy in college. It wasn’t directly my major, but I made sure included a lot of philosophy and the philosophical tradition that I am very attached to as a pragmatist tradition in American philosophy, which is sort of an empiricist sort of anti ideal philosophical tradition, which is really concerned with the actual practical use value of ideas and of theories.


S35: And to William James, brother of Henry James is sort of a kind of pragmatist philosopher.


S36: And I read a lot of James and there is a paragraph from an essay called Moral Philosopher and the Moral Life, where he deals with this question of the social nature of ethics, of ethical obligations.


S35: And I don’t necessarily completely agree with the claims James makes, but there is a paragraph that’s always really stuck with me about what makes an ethical world and how how sort of our ethical determinations depend fundamentally on each other. It’s interesting to read the paragraph, but not too long.


S36: Wherever such minds exists with judgments of good and ill and demands upon one another. There is an ethical world in its essential features where all other things gods and men in starry heavens blotted out from this universe. No, there left but one rock with two loving souls upon it. That rock would have historically moral constitution, as any possible world with the attorneys in the menses could harbor would be a tragic constitution, because the rock’s inhabitants would die. But while they live, there would be good, real good things and real bad things in the universe. There’d be obligations, claims and expectations. Obedience is refusals and disappointments, compunctions and longings for harmony become again an inner peace of conscience when it would be restored. There would in short be a moral life whose activities you would have no women with the intensity of interest in each other, with which the hero and heroine might be in doubt. You all right?


S11: That’s lovely. I’m going to mention a couple others. Actually, yours. Yours reminded me, Jamal, a little bit of there’s a I remember reading hobs and actually this is kind of an anti an anti lesson that I took reading hobs and Hobbes’s book, Leviathan. And it’s. And one of hobs as arguments is that the life of humans and the state of nature is so intolerable that, of course, we need an over arching authority over us. Because because in the life life in a state of nature, no arts, no letters, no society. And which is worst of all, a continual fear and danger of violent death and the life of man, solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short. And the thing that’s always struck me is that it has something just deeply, fundamentally wrong, which is that we have never lived solitary lives like that, that there’s this fundamental misconception that’s made by these philosophers, the early political philosophers, which is that the solution is a dictatorship because people are individual atoms out there and they’re just constantly banging up against each other.


S20: Individualistic Lee. But actually, we’ve always been social creatures and so we’ve always had society. There’s never been humans without society. And this notion that therefore we need to create artificially create society with an authoritarian ruler over it was always like misguided. So that was one that I rebelled against.


S8: I think you would like an essay by a philosopher named Charles MIL’s called Ideal Theory as ideology.


S27: OK, I’m hard.


S11: I don’t think I could get through that with my forty nine year old brain.


S5: But maybe someday I want to put in a word for reading works of epic poetry. My favorite thing I’ve ever done in school was to read the Aeneid, and that meant I had to take a lot of Latin first and it paid off in the Aeneid because the immersive quality of that story and of reading it in this puzzle form foreign dead language was such like enthralling experience for me, and I’m sure you could do that with other epic poems. But I feel like it both gets at the beauty of language and also the pull of the storytelling is so strong. And that has affected how I’ve read and thought about so many novels and television shows. And just like any serial narrative drama, which is my favorite form of taking in. I mean I was gonna say my favorite form of entertainment, but it’s really my also my favorite form of learning.


S6: All right. Slate plus. So go forth with that. And heaven enriched and returned Thanksgiving weekend and learn.
