
S1: This ad free podcast is part of your slate plus membership.


S2: Hello and welcome to the Slate Political Gabfest for December 26 twenty nineteen. The Oakland conundrum addition.


S3: We were looking out we’re looking out at an audience that seems progressive but not unrealistically unrealistically progressive, an audience filled with people who work in technology but not in the broe, a terrible technology.


S4: They work in social justice, but not in the commie kind of social justice. And they are people who are definitely, wilda, willing to build some housing, but not willing to sell the whole city out for developers. In short, we’re in Oakland, California.


S5: Gabfests is live at the Fox Theater in the heart of downtown Oakland.


S6: There may be no there there, but there are a lot of you here. I’m David Plotz of Atlas Obscura. On my left is Emily Bazelon, of course.


S7: Just as just as Reggie Jackson, Reggie Jackson made his name with the Oakland A’s, then went on to legendary fame in New York with the Yankees. So Emily Bazelon made her bones as a dogged reporter for the Tri Valley Herald covering San Ramone spent the whole time wishing I was working for the Tribune and has now gone to great fame in New York City. And on her left. A man who is a walking conundrum himself. How can anyone be so smart and so kind and so handsome? John DICKERSON of CBS 60 Minutes.


S8: You mean you’ve forgotten humble?


S9: On this special edition of The Gab Fest. We’re going to tackle some of the world’s most pressing conundrums. We’re not personal conundrum. So would you rather be exceptional at one thing, but awful at everything else or just pretty good at everything? And we’ll have social and political conundrums such as would you prefer to have Donald Trump as your president or as your father?


S10: And later, we’ll be joined by a special guest, you know him for Mythbusters, Adam Savage.


S11: And then we will tackle conundrums from this very audience for our own special Slate Plus segment. So let us get started. You have to swap places with the main character from any book. Who do you swap with?


S12: Start. No, no, I want you to start. OK. So just think how much better Hamlet would have gone if Ophelia had a sunny disposition.


S13: It’s kind of like got that together, rolled with the punches, decided to have a response, and didn’t turn into a wave of really depressed away for then floated away. It wasn’t.


S14: Which character would you like to give Prozac?


S15: I want to swap and then fix things.


S16: Wait. But did you want to hang out with that? He’s so moody. You’re like when you’re when he’s. I’m gonna fix this. I’m gonna fix it. Yeah. Yeah, he’s gonna be different. I’m totally the victim.


S17: I love this question of the challenge. Like which story would it really help to fix this story?


S15: And I really feel like I could inhabit Ophelia and make it come out better. I’m so much more reasonable and kind of balance than she is. I don’t want to be the failure in the book. And then I was thinking about Lady Macbeth, her character.


S14: You could really good things would be so much better if these you could do laundry, whether at the play.


S16: It might not be, but damn spot. Would that be a good play if at the end, you know, he’s just like, oh yeah, let’s get married on the premise of the question like which. Real serious.


S18: Just like if we get to hijack the premise of the question I’m going to approach this evening differently. John, would you switch places? Oh, no, wait. You do say switch places with her. Hang out with swap. You get oh, you get to be the main character. Oh. Oh. Because I because hang out with.


S19: Would be Ford Prefect because now he always knew where his towel was. Two people got that reference.


S14: No Nick, I would. I would like to be Nick Charles in the Thin Man because he could disarm a man of his revolver and never spill his martini.


S20: That’s good. That’s good.


S21: David, I think well, I’ve always had a crush on Lizzie Bennet from Pride and Prejudice. So I think I would like to be Mr. Darcy cause I would be rich and have a great deal and the girl pemberley. And then I get to end up with Lizzie Bennet, which would be awesome.


S12: All right. That’s a good one. Although I do feel like in the end, of course, you’re going to pick someone who has superpowers. Right. I mean, you are the most honest in that you wouldn’t really want to be like Lyra in his dark materials or Princess Leia. I know that’s not a book or her Miney Granger or whatever. A great character from Lord of the Rings, which is always your go to. Of course you would if you could do magic. Wouldn’t you want to go do magic?


S13: I don’t think so. No, really. I totally would.


S14: I’d rather be. I would want to be Aragorn. Who can’t do it.


S22: Really? He could do. Please. Can you not? Can you just not do any Lord of the Rings night?


S13: I open the door. I’m sorry. She brought it up. I didn’t bring it up. I didn’t. You asked me that.


S12: I didn’t even. It’s not even mentioned of the dragon.


S21: Maybe you could be the tenant. No. Maha eggnog. That’s how I feel right now. All right. Emily, do you give us another room?


S12: OK. If you could mind meld with your pet for just one question. Answer. What would the question be? Note we are stealing this from Clara Jefferys, Twitter Quest. Could Twitter feed because it’s too good to pass up as a conundrum? Thank you, Clara.


S23: Well, the obvious question for the dog would be who’s a good boy?


S21: I saw I have a couple of cats and one of the cats really likes to eat earwax. And so I would like to ask the cat. What’s up with that? Why are you eating earwax? What are you. What’s so good? They would just say that it tastes good to them.


S17: What else would they offer you?


S24: What would you ask your pet? You don’t have a pet.


S25: I don’t have a pet. I used to have a dog and my dog. Hey, he made me feel that being left alone was like a betrayal and tragedy. So I want to ask him, like, could you be left alone?


S13: Is there any time of day point at which it’s OK to leave you alone in the house?


S12: Maybe it’s not so bad.


S19: Maybe once I’m gone, the howling stops, which is also true with parenting.


S26: Which animal? If it could speak and you could talk to, it would be most annoying.


S27: I mean, the birds that have really little voices like the tweet this.


S28: I don’t want to talk to those birds. How do you think?


S14: I hate to sound annoying or actually be annoying, but I feel like both.


S17: Both quality. Huh.


S14: You know, Teddy Roosevelt had a super high voice, although he might have actually been annoying, too. But I guess my where I started with that sentence was started with that sentence was the hyena’s of the voice isn’t necessarily proof of an inner annoying as. But then I realized I couldn’t really follow it all the way through with Rose.


S29: I think dogs would be so annoying if because they’d be like, Are you mad at me or are you mad? Are you are you know you’re mad at me? Are you? Are you are you mad at me? See, this is. Are you are you mad?


S28: This is a new boyfriend. Don’t worry. I’m here. I’m here. I love you.


S14: You guys you guys have such a jaundiced view. The dog would be like. I love you. I love you, a_v_i_.


S21: That would be unbearable, though.


S14: It would be a no no because it would always be sincere. It would each time it would come with the fresh propulsion of sincerity.


S30: There are some dog lovers in the audience.


S22: What? What would you ask? What do you think?


S14: Would Meitner and I mean, this is such a boring answer, but hyena’s obviously because they would be laughing all the time.


S31: They’d be laughing at the jokes. Wouldn’t be funny. They would be would be nervous.


S14: Laughter. It would make every situation unsettling.


S24: Remember, we used to have a colleague who had that laugh. It would be like that.


S14: Oh, my God. It was like a report from a cannon. You’d be trying to do your work in this. Laugh would emerge. And the end. It was really destabilizing. That would be the hyena. David, resurrection or reincarnation? Not what do you not what do you believe? But which would you prefer? I feel like I was as I asked this question in a previous life.


S21: So. So, okay.


S22: The advantage of the advantage of resurrection is, you know, you get to come back as a person. You’re pretty clear. You got to come back. You got to come back as yourself.


S32: And you know what that is. On the other hand, it would be so boring to live your life over and over and over and over again and front time.


S33: Maybe it’s not living it over, but you know, you’re yourself. Is it like Groundhog Day? Really? Oh, no.


S34: Here I am again, running the same mistakes. I like the same said re-incarnation gave each talk print.


S35: I think reincarnation would be so fun. Gives you would you would get one of these different experiences. Be great to be a cockroach for me. You would only be 14 days.


S34: I guess I could trade up getting to be reincarnated because then I definitely want to be right. Oh, I assume you keep getting to do it. Yeah.


S27: Then I mean both that you get more bites at the apple, so to speak, but also that you get to take on all these different forms.


S23: John, I’m very. This is again, very conflicted here.


S36: Your church has a good history saying as the good. Well yeah but but man what you gotta go through.


S37: And then and then no one believes you.


S38: But then people worship you for a really long time. Yes. Well, that does di that is appealing.


S39: Well, it all depends on whether you know it or not. Right. Because because I may have already made the decision, but I don’t think that.


S40: But that doesn’t tell us what you would prefer. Well, but I don’t know. I was trying to go throw the metaphysical long ball there. Don’t. I don’t know.


S41: I guess reincarnation. All right. I actually meant resurrection.


S42: I got so flustered, I think.


S43: OK, here’s one. This will do this one as an audience poll, too, I think. Would you prefer to have Donald Trump as your president or your father first? We’ll be president. Second, we’ll be father. Would you prefer to have Donald Trump as your president?


S44: Would you prefer to have Donald Trump as your father?


S45: So that’s interesting.


S12: So now when I was looking at this question, I thought, OK. So if it’s my father, then he’s not the president. And so basically, I see that audience response as one that’s taking it for the team.


S46: Right. Exactly.


S43: Hmm, that’s interesting. And why would I pose this in the cocktail before the show to a couple of listeners and one of them pointed out something also good, which is that you’d also be rich.


S24: So that would be cool.


S47: Are you somebody somebody in the audience said maybe.


S12: Does it matter if you’re a Vanko or Tiffany or one of the boys, were you?


S48: I guess would be get to be a Oncor, Tiffany. Right. I mean, it’s a different Experion has a white guy has like any one of those, Trump has the hair. Careful, Mike. Careful.


S24: I definitely would. Yeah. Pick him as father. You definitely take it for the team. Definitely.


S49: But I’m not sure. Would you enjoy golf? Love it. It would be great. Yeah. Golf, warm weather. I cheated golf to be my perfect fit right in.


S17: And you’re the one who’s the most approving of, you know, general corruption, bribery, scandals. Think greasing the PA into the family.


S39: And you could give them all the money away.


S13: To the extent that. And then charity close. No, no, no. I’m saying no, no. Run it. Run the charity. logit properly like with my re-enacting of Ophelia. But yeah, it’s plausible.


S50: Exactly. You could. Right. Exactly. Go on.


S12: OK. If you believe there’s a God who answers our prayers and influences our lives, what would it take to convince you that such a god does not exist? And if you don’t believe God exists, what would it take to convince you that God does exist?


S43: So I do not believe in God. And it would take so little to convince me that God exists.


S51: So you’re right on the edge. Yeah. It’s like. All right. God, if you exist. Put.


S43: I would. Do you even have like a million dollars?


S12: Put a $1 bill in my hand right now. I’m super right now. Then that seems like a big ask. Actually, God has better things to do than be putting something in your palm.


S35: But if he’s so good at everything, it seems like that would be pretty easy, huh?


S12: That’s what you’re looking for.


S30: If only our bills were easier.


S52: Okay. Does it have to be your God? Now, my God is the God of love and forgiveness.


S29: What about you, Emily?


S12: Well, I do believe in God. I don’t think about the answering our prayers part. That’s not at least my kind of Jewish interpretation of God, but I believe in God. And I don’t think it would take much to convince me that God doesn’t exist, because I have a kind of prime mover relatively in my main way.


S53: It wouldn’t take much to convince you that God doesn’t think it does not. Well, I know I would say it doesn’t make sense. What does that make sense? Well, because how do you prove the negative?


S27: My main feeling about my attachment to the idea that God exists is just the world is so complicated and beautiful and terrible and all these things that don’t feel rational to me. Like, how could there not have been some spark of creative unexplained energy in the beginning of it? And if scientists were able to really explain how life began. I feel like maybe I would have to admit that I was wrong about that.


S43: That I feel like they’ve done a pretty good job with that already.


S30: But that’s okay.


S34: I’m saved by my lack of understanding of such science. You’re talking about. What about you?


S14: I thought we were getting into heavy stuff later. This is on the first page. I didn’t you know your first page. Determinist.


S54: Given that there is so much suffering in the world that goes unanswered and so many people have so much and don’t do anything with it to ameliorate that suffering, that’s despite the consistent prayers of all of us who pray for an improvement in that situation is a pretty strong argument that those prayers are meaningless and yet it leads the turn.


S31: He makes it. Yeah.


S14: And yet all the joy and love and beauty and hope that still exists in the world is the reason that that hasn’t changed my view about God.


S19: So I guess it’s the strongest argument I can think of and I haven’t succumbed to it yet.


S27: But it does make a lot of sense to be easily convinced in one direction or the other. Right. I mean, there we don’t have proof, obviously, but it seems like a big thing to rule out. Like we don’t. It’s hard to eliminate it. But maybe you don’t feel that way.


S43: No, I think it’s hard to. I think you cannot prove the non-existence of God. I think would be very easy for God to prove God’s own existence.


S55: And God doesn’t bother God. Doesn’t matter.


S56: Makes you skeptical, too. John, give us a conundrum.


S14: Who would you, David Plotz, rather be locked up or hunted for sport?


S42: We really like this. I like this question a lot. OK, we’ll do this as an audience.


S4: Paul So start thinking I really am claustrophobic.


S26: I really, really hate to be inside.


S57: I’m assuming that that is am I locked up for life? Is that a life sentence or whatever?


S12: The period that you’re hunted for sport would be the equivalent period that you’re locked up.


S49: You have to think of it as not survive like a sport. If you’re a hunted for sport for like two years, you’d put your kids, you.


S58: And where are we in? What can you give me? Amateurs. Yeah. Yeah, yeah.


S14: OK. You’re in jail. Let’s make it in like 20 years or hunted for sport where you if you make it to the end of the field of play, you’re free 20 years, 20 years versus like an hour. Well, depends how fast you go and whether they get you with the arrow within the first five minutes. I think I assume, by the way, when you’re hunted for sport, don’t you figure it will be with like range weapons that aren’t like it?


S12: It will be rightfully The Hunger Games.


S33: Yeah, OK. So I think. All right, 20 years is tough. If you’d said if you’d said like 50 years, I would definitely take hunting for sport. And if you’d said five years, I would definitely take being locked up. So 20 years is a hard number. I think I would take hunting for sport. I really do not want to be. I don’t want to be locked up.


S23: Well, and then, of course, the question is what kind of hunted for sport? You know, I mean, do you get a big lead? Do you re running in sand and all the rest by that time?


S59: Most dangerous man. No, no. People people are chasing me. Yeah, right. What about you?


S25: Oh, I. I also tend to be claustrophobic. And the idea of being locked up makes me really antsy. But thinking it through, I think the more rational answer is to take being locked up.


S12: I was imagine being like kidnapped and, you know, really held in some terrible set of conditions, in which case absolutely. I’d rather run around even if the lions are gonna eat in the end.


S31: I don’t like being with other people much.


S18: So can we make it 25? No, no. A period of contemplative time would be kind of.


S47: It’s like being in a modest day. Exactly.


S4: Let’s you know, let’s do this as an audience poll. So first we’ll ask if you’d rather be locked up. Second, if you’d rather be hunted for sport. Would you rather be locked up?


S60: Would you rather be hunted for sports?


S61: More at this summit.


S39: Some of those people sounded like they wanted to do the hunting.


S62: Yeah.


S22: Onto the second segment, our social segment. Here we go.


S12: How do you tell your best friends that the person he introduced to you as the love of his or her laid their life is actually a disaster waiting to happen?


S63: Oh, my God, this is such a terrible dilemma.


S34: Dilemma. Have you actually had this up? No.


S64: I had a friend. This happened to with a sibling that the sibling, spouse, so few prospective spouse was somebody that this my my friend thought was unacceptable, disastrous. And he said something to his sibling and destroy it, destroyed their relationship.


S12: And then ever say anything for that reason?


S23: You think you don’t? I think we don’t know. The mysteries of the heart wants what it wants.


S12: And yet, if you really believe that and you think there’s some chance of fending it off. Be so hard to be quiet.


S28: And also as the person asking for your opinion. So I know someone who this happened to. But, you know, when they’re asking for your baby up, that there is one answer they want. That’s right. I guess that’s right.


S30: And that is to be hunted for sport, so to speak.


S14: But here’s the question. Could you wiggle? Is there a back door to doing this, which is that if it’s not about the qualities of the person they’ve introduced isn’t the love of their life, but it’s about the qualities of the of your brother or your friend. In other words, is there selection of this person demonstrative of a weakness that they have that about which they should be?


S12: That’s an elaborate ruse, which would be a better, more diplomatic way to go about it. But mine is perhaps not convincing.


S18: Yeah, well, I specialize in elaborate ruses. OK, well then no, stay quiet.


S12: We all think you have to stay quiet. Did it.


S22: All right. I’m going to phrase this pejoratively. Is there anyone out there who thinks you should not stay quiet?


S60: So speak up. There’s a group that thinks you should speak up.


S22: I would I would be interested in hearing an example of how that went well.


S24: But look, you can. We’ll take that off line, John.


S23: I would. Bob Dylan. Go to Salman Byles or with Salman Byles. Go to Bob Dylan. In other words, who is the coolest person in the world that everyone must actually go travel to to pay homage to David?


S19: You have specific views on this question?


S43: Well, I think it’s obviously it depends on cultural context and who you are. I think now the Obamas. I think the Obamas were that for a period.


S65: I think in sort of 2008 to 2010, there was this way in which anyone, the Obamas just like perked a little finger over and did show up. Now, is there anyone who fits that bill?


S16: Ha. There’s no I don’t. I think they’re beyond say maybe I’d say definitely the answer to this question.


S14: And what is the context of this meeting?


S12: Is it to go searing concert or is it to go he wants to talk to you like is there any way that she would come to you? No, there is not. There is no one who Beyonce I have to go to except maybe her mom.


S66: That’s it.


S59: Everybody comes to see. But do you think anyone that has to go to the Bob Dylan has to go see? I think the problem Bob Dylan’s body blow up. Bob Dylan’s like, fuck it. I don’t care. Right. He would. He is the misanthropic, right.


S12: Yeah, but the mobile has to go beyond, say, Bob Dylan does, too. I think everybody has to go beyond.


S36: Interesting. John, do you agree with that? What that what is Bob have to do?


S12: Because he has to go beyond beyond he has to like if there is a question of who is going to make the move, who’s gonna make the overtime be slightly inconvenienced, too, is it?


S14: I think he’s I think he would go see her maybe by picking through her keyhole down upon his knees.


S50: Yeah. It’s a little questionable, actually, that. Sorry. You know, it’s the one one person. I got it.


S67: Got it. I’m in the right. It’s actually that that song is actually I think about that.


S20: I think about what Obama Obama would Obamacans. He beat Beyonce and Jay-Z went to see Obama. Romney. Yeah, I think that’s true. But I don’t know. But not today. Probably today. The Obamas would be like, oh, can we get that repulsive? Does the pope ever. Do you think the pope would go see Beyonce? I guess maybe, perhaps not. But his lost man.


S38: Not to be dissing the pope or any. Now it’s. You don’t have to have to worry about it. OK. You can. He’s. He’s chill. He forgives. That’s too soon.


S43: What’s the most awkward professional setting to have to extricate yourself from?


S68: Well, I haven’t. I have a specific answer for this.


S41: I’ll start with my yes go yes, that would be good.


S4: My specific answer is you may have had that experience of being on a video conference call where you’re on a video conference call and you forget that you’re on the video conference call and you start to do things that you definitely should not do when other people are looking at you like picking your nose.


S6: Like making like texting other people.


S41: Like like, you know, I think the examples have been disaster examples. Are there other examples? And that is a bad situation because you cannot because there’s no good way to explain why you’re doing that. That’s that’s very awkward.


S69: That’s bad. That’s really what about.


S70: There’s also that problem of like, you’re right.


S27: I was thinking more of like a social situation where, like, everyone’s drinking and you’re uncomfortable. There’s something going on that’s like more out of work that feels like you don’t want to be.


S71: Or what if the what if the person sitting next to you is watching something they shouldn’t be watching and you have to get away?


S14: I don’t blame you. Here’s one that I was recently a part of, which is you’re in a small meeting setting and the person sitting next to you has fallen dead asleep. And and and their particular way of falling asleep. They escalate the snoring. So they’re gonna get busted soon. So do you really happen to.


S12: That’s never happened to me. Yeah.


S37: So it’s it’s so CBS, it’s that was not now is not the context. That is not the guy he was in.


S14: But then here’s the here’s the conundrum. Do you wake them. Yeah. And hundred percent. Yeah. But what if you wake them and they and they, you know, flail or about then you put them in a position because they could just can’t drift through the rest of the meeting.


S12: Maybe you try to really gently nudge them and you know that. Well then there’s a bad one now. That was yeah that was I was once teaching class with someone who fell asleep. Not the person I currently teach with. And it was really I. I have never been so mortified. I was so worried.


S41: You were with them while they were teaching.


S36: Yeah, well, that daughter goes to Yale, just like we like to get you there.


S40: How did this happen? Was it in the first part of the second home? And then they fell asleep while they were in your.


S12: Teaching someone, the other person and the students could be taking up a lot of oxygen in the room.


S72: So you kind of fade away. You were so uninteresting. Yes, exactly.


S12: But then I saw the others. I saw the students notice. And I got really uncomfortable.


S67: It was. Yeah, setting.


S14: Emily, you are made an absolute monarch of a nation sometime between the years thirteen fifty and sixteen fifty. But retain all of your modern knowledge and values. Do you keep being a king or queen or. It is very fluid between 30 15s activity or do you propose that the society abandon the monarchy and shift to a representative democracy?


S12: So does this question of vote for anyone else.


S13: The Monty Python skit in which King Arthur shows up. But like says, I’m your king. And they’re like, no, you’re not. We’re there. They call they’re a workers collective. They follow his workers. You know, you see the abuses inherent in the system that way.


S12: So I think that it would be a mistake to imagine, especially in 13, 50, that people are ready to take on democracy. I mean, we’re barely ready now. So I think you have to build up your civic institutions first and make sure that you have why withdrawing in between, because otherwise the whole thing could fall apart and be even worse than continuing with your minor, which I would be a benevolent. Would you start?


S35: What would you start with you? I would be a big nephew build you. Would you start with the justice system?


S23: Would you share things?


S12: Searcy what it Queen Elizabeth do? She did a really good job of this. What did Queen Elizabeth do? She well, she had encouraged Shakespeare. That was very helpful. I think she did other things, too. She collected taxes. Well, she build up other in between civic institutions.


S14: John, would you install democracy as we know from the attempts to install democracy and in illiberal countries, it sometimes there’s tissue rejection. And so would you as a single monarch have the ability to line everybody up a plus once you get a little taste of power? It’s really it’s hard to give it out.


S12: And there wouldn’t be things you could suddenly fix. You could try it. You could put people on a path to democracy. But I don’t think just walking away from your rulership responsibilities would be the right.


S43: I think we we saw this movie. What was the what’s the Hilary Mantel book about Thomas Cromwell, too?


S48: Oh, yeah. Yeah. The trilogy. Wolf Hall Woodhall Yeah.


S57: That he did. Cromwell is like this person who is trying to put modern man. He’s a modern character who’s put back in the time of Henry the Eighth. And so he’s trying to bring modern customs, modern economy, modern religious tolerance. So that’s his meccan. So that’s what you would try to do within within a framework of an absolute monarchy.


S54: So here’s the question. What, Emily? Given all of your modern knowledge into and so forth, would you introduce first to the citizenry?


S25: Right. Let’s see. You need.


S27: Well, I think you you need people of different religious persuasions to get along with each other. Right. You need less tribalism.


S28: So you need some interfaith council saying, first, let’s convene a meeting. You get them to stop hating and kill each other. And I think that’s actually super important.


S14: My interfaith. But wouldn’t wouldn’t you what piece of knowledge wouldn’t you have? Some piece of knowledge that would seem like magic to them in 13, 50? And therefore, if you could roll that out at the beginning, people would think you’re that much more magical and therefore you’d have even more power to convene your meeting at which everyone’s skill a nap.


S12: So let’s see, could you introduce some basic due process?


S40: Oh, no. I’m tell you about some some whiz bang thing we’ve learned to Boileau. Is it? Yes. Indoor plumbing.


S28: You think that’s the road to democracy? Everyone like you turn the lights on and no one feels ever.


S13: And then they have the leaves or time to start worrying about voting.


S18: The route of the human soul is through the stomach one way or the other. All right. Well, let’s let’s.


S4: Audience poll. This one would do if you were an absolute monarch, would you bring democracy or would you continue to be an absolutist ruler? We’ll start with bring democracy. Would you bring democracy to those benighted people?


S44: Would you remain an absolute ruler?


S73: Now has more resounding than I would have thought, a lot of democracy skeptics. Maybe you’d asked this question a few years. Oh, God, Lamar Balance just got Emily.


S24: You doing OK?


S12: Well, this one, I think, sort of relates to the last question. Would you rather be in charge of deciding the substance of society’s laws or the procedures by which those laws are enforced?


S23: That’s D. Wait. The procedures by which they’re made are enforced.


S12: This is enforced. You can reinterpret it if you want.


S43: This is a this is we have. Would you rather be Article 1. Article 2. Would you rather be the president or Congress?


S12: Well, it depends. What kind of president would you rather be?


S71: Freedom and equal protection of the laws or due process of the laws both in the Fourteenth Amendment. Is there plumbing?


S13: How do you make sure that it work? Hold people accountable if it doesn’t.


S35: Paul, what’s the point? You’re though. Yeah. Here.


S12: This is more about substance. I mean, I think if you have terrible procedures, the substance will be worth less. But I still I feel like the substance is more inspiring and aspirational for people to start with the substance. And that makes them more likely to create the procedures. It gives them a stake in the procedures without the substance, the processes to era. And so people don’t value it.


S23: What if you just decide, as most modern presidents have to just basically you can interpret the law as you’ve choose to. But because you have the ability to enforce it, then you can use your benevolent interpretation of the law to get actually the result you want. So you have the muscle to do it, whereas before you’re just trying to persuade people through the brilliance of your law setting.


S12: I mean, I think if you’re doing that to for your own short term gain, that’s not such a good idea. But are you talking about the warders benevolent?


S14: No, I’m talking about your cause. Right. It’s enforcement versus creation of the law. So I take all the bad laws that are created by that silly Article 1 legislature. And I just choose to interpret them my way. But because I have the enforcement power, people have to listen to me.


S12: Yeah, well, that’s supposed to be how it works. Well it’s just that we said we were only given two options. I see.


S66: So would I rather be the person who had the power to interpret and enforce. Yeah. Would I rather be right? Would I rather be the executive branch of the legislative branch? Ha.


S12: This is an interesting question to ask right now because the Supreme Court is probably on the brink of really changing how much the executive branch gets to do on its own. I mean, the executive branch really has so much power right now. So I think if you’re just answering based on what how effective you could be, you would choose the executive branch.


S65: You know, John, you have the power to go back in time and change the result of one presidential election, not 2016, not 2016.


S4: Which do you choose?


S23: I would choose.


S43: I’ve been thinking about this for a month.


S14: No, no, no, no. There are there are there are a couple. But. And actually, this would be with somebody who is more skilled would have a really more clever answer. But they election of 1876 in which Rutherford behaves beats what he’s given the election over. Tilden Hayes, the Republican. Tilden, the Democrat. Tilden beats Hayes. But four states, five states are kind of up in the air. They the twenty Democrats in those states give they give to 20 electoral votes, too. I think I’ve got this right. HAYES Hayes becomes president on the promise that he will remove troops from the south and that basically function and reconstruction ends and the rights that were given to African-Americans basically end there until 1965.


S19: Right.


S12: That was my answer, except I forgot all the names and dates the charts actually knew. So another good one, though.


S23: It’s just it’s it’s insane. I mean, we think we live in crazy times now.


S12: That was. So is it reassuring that that happened? And it was terrible and the country still continued or is it just show how really terrible things can get and people will still tolerate it?


S23: Well, and as you know, I mean, the country continued, but there was deep and profound. And I mean, the tonnage of suffering and lost hope as a result of that nice is incalculable. It’s incalculable.


S12: So maybe it wasn’t worth it.


S23: The country continued. Well, I guess the alternative is civil war. You know, 2.0. So I don’t know. But I guess the I guess the point is that that that was this much awful, which some people can look at and say that’s how much more there could be. I mean, so, yes, the country survived. But, man, it was it went, you know, brutal MLA.


S12: I have another candidate, which is 1820. Kate, because Andrew Jackson would have been a really good president to just kick off the list. How about you?


S22: I would pick. It’s going to be a perverse one may not be popular with this crowd. I would pick 1992. I would have had George H.W. Bush win a second term.


S34: David’s feelings about George H.W. Slayer’s, about Michael. Hi. I think there is a large woman.


S32: He has a theory that was their last chance to maintain a Republican Party. That was an establishment Republican Party that behaved in reasonable, rational ways and that that loss.


S24: We have the hyena’s here, that loss with a crucial to push the Republican Party further to the right.


S32: It also Bush’s raising of taxes. He had raised taxes and that was a reason he lost a lot of Republican support. And it it it made Republicans believe you could never move to raise taxes again. But why are you pointing at me?


S18: Because I. Because I want to associate and then disagree. OK. I want you agree and disagree. So I agree with all that. The only thing is you have the parallel thing happening, which is Gingrich in 94, which happens completely outside of the of of Bush.


S35: And well, but that’s in the context where Clinton’s already won the election. And they have they have they have Clinton to translate against Newt Gingrich. Does it? Gingrich doesn’t become the speaker that soon or in that same way.


S23: But Gingrich’s plan to take over Democratic control, the House, which has been going on for 40 years, exists and has been going on for years and years and years.


S27: He’s taking advantage of these really powerful social forces.


S14: Right. He’s been in he’s been attacking the system for a long before even Bushwhack.


S35: Yeah. But I think with him. But I think with a moderate presidential administration that is slightly cooled down, it is less effective.


S32: And the Seib Republican establishment stays robust longer in a way that would probably be healthy for the country.


S23: Gingrich doesn’t have the foil of Clinton to win in 94. Yeah, I think it’s still. But I I’m I’m ISIS. Hate yourself with your.


S74: You admire the jujitsu.


S62: All right.


S9: Dearest Oakland, our guest has worked as an animator, graphic designer, carpenter projections, film developer, television presenter, set designer, toy designer and gallery owner. So if he cannot answer these conundrums, nobody can. Please join us in welcoming the author of Every Tool is a Hammer. You may know him as the former host of Mythbusters, Adam Savage.


S46: Thank you.


S75: It is so difficult to be backstage while you guys are batting around these questions and your response to whether you’d bring representative democracy just upended my whole idea of humanity.


S12: Maybe not in a good way. No. Pretty dark.


S75: Yeah, it is pretty dark.


S23: Was there another question? The point of new arrival privileged that you would like to weigh in on from the previous round?


S75: Are you were truly feeling restive? I would first demonstrate if I was that back in time, I’d first show them how to make a motor, and then I would bring representative democracy right, because they would bow before you go going mad. Motor King. Yeah. And then I’d be like, see? Yeah.


S32: Well. What would be the oil? What would the power source be for the motor.


S76: I’d teach them how to make a battery out of a pile and then we’d start to like we you know I’d remember what I could about battery technology and hope that people were smarter than me.


S33: There’s a lot of ifs there.


S75: Welcome to my life.


S74: Adam Silver, if you could swim in any liquid other than water, what liquid would you choose?


S76: So you know that I have actually swam in a pool full of syrup.


S70: And what was it like? Tell me more.


S77: Okay. So there is a myth that you can swim justice fast and serve as you can in water. The idea being that because therp syrup is thicker, it slows you down, but because it’s thicker, it gives you more to push off of. And the myth is based on the theory that those two forces cancel each other and thus swimming in SERP is just as fast as swimming in water. Jamie and I actually went out to the Alameda County Sheriff’s Department. They let us dig 200 foot long troughs and filled them with varying degrees of visger syrup.


S12: We used guar gum and maple syrup. Too expensive way too.


S75: That’s literally like millions of dollars worth of maple syrup.


S12: Yeah, no one wants it to be maple syrup. Continue.


S75: There are crime rings in Canada hiding that much maple syrup. And I’m not kidding at all. And it’s cold and feels really just as funky as you would imagine to entertain. Oh, yeah. You know, did they cancel each other out? Totally. I swam just as fast and serp as I did in water. But if you gave me any liquid I’d love to swim in, honey. That would be weird.


S78: Sweet. Honey. Honey. Yeah. That’s a good idea. Thought of that.


S38: John Ginn.


S21: Although you’d have to fill the pool up a lot to keep refilling.


S75: Yes, you could cut it. Never. You always drink gin with a mark. Right. They can’t tell you.


S12: I wonder what it would be like. Do you think it’d be any different from what? I would be different if you let it into your mouth. It’ll be different. But do you think you’d feel different texture wise?


S23: I don’t know. I thought sure use it. Would. Would it be any different than Friday night?


S77: It’s thinner than water, so it wouldn’t. I think it would feel very different. And you’d weigh differently in it. I think you’d sink like a stone.


S36: Really? I often do. Yeah. Specially after the third one.


S35: If you’re if you’re in if you’re in like an oil or syrup, you float more because I might absolutely up. So I would have that. What’s the thickest thing. What’s the thickest liquor.


S79: That’s what I create. Yeah.


S42: Then what we did last thick with two or thick thick Brooklyn.


S75: No I think would be hard to cold. Honey has to be about one of the thickest most viscously really. Right to a whore. Yeah exactly. Or an old bottle of liquid Prell with the pearl.


S24: What would you and what would you do.


S12: Well my first thought about this is not saying good things about me. Wouldn’t be kind of interested to swim in blood and see what that’s like.


S40: You are you are not the old you are not the only vampire in the room. Somebody out there when it was first asked, said one, said blood. I wrote about the bursitis.


S12: And the other thing, I thought it was milk. I think that was just like a moment of yeah, I would be interested in that.


S75: It is both. I would not. For the record, that blood is only the most my nute bit actually thicker than water. So it feel very much like swimming in water, except it would smell like iron.


S67: Was it was that that makes sense, right?


S80: Was that ever a myth you busted. That blood is thicker than water? No, it wasn’t. It is just a fact. I came across in one of my books that blood is like point 0 1 3 5 percent thicker than water.


S21: Also, it is thicker than water. Yeah, the just a little bit.


S35: I never understood that expression in Germany. There is. I don’t understand the. Why understand the blood part. It’s like, oh yeah, we’re we’re brothers so we have blood. We. But what’s the water.


S18: What the hell. Why. Who’s right? Who brought water into the conversation?


S12: The most obvious liquid to compare. What else would you compare?


S18: And also everything else might be like blood is thicker than honey.


S34: No, no, it’s actually not in any conversation. Do you know the x ray?


S22: All right. Next one here in five hundred years, which is most likely to be a religion, Harry Potter or Star Wars.


S75: Starving.


S12: And are we at more movie as we must be, I’ve lost track of the Star Wars crowd. Yes, entirely. I have a dim awareness that there’s one coming out right now.


S33: But is it?


S57: Is it more like what’s gonna be a religion? Do you think? I mean, there’s so much of Harry Potter has really entered our sense of our mythology. It’s in our mythology.


S43: Star Wars is also in our mythology. Mm hmm. Well, or is there some other pop creation of popular culture that will be a religion?


S75: Look, I believe the Jedi is already in a recognized religion in New Zealand. But that’s just because New Zealand is awesome. Yeah.


S81: You know, that’s a really you say Lord of the Rings. No, no. I’m leaving.


S18: Well, you got once you tee up New Zealand, you’re really you’re pretty close.


S54: Most of what we know about the devil is actually doesn’t come from the Bible. It comes from the inferno. So that’s your point. Right. So is there anything adjacent that would that would and so probably Star Wars is more adjacent to a fixed or existing religion than in. All right. So I’m gonna agree with Star Wars. I don’t know.


S12: I’m the subquestion that I am. Neither of them are going to be a religion.


S82: OK. Heretic.


S12: OK. You come home very tired. You’re wearing a comfortable shirt. You take off your pants, special teeth, go to bed wearing the shirt in the morning. You’re running late, you’re feeling lazy, whatever. You wear the shirt again. Have you worn the shirt one time, two times or three times? The important conundrum that you are onstage for Savitz.


S75: I’d say one time because I’m applying the genes rule because I wear jeans for like 10 days at a time.


S12: Do you take them off in between? Probably. So then I think. But then do you feel like you’re wearing them one time just because of 10 days in a row?


S75: I do. I actually get like I get familiar to me in the way that each one has it, mainly in the shape of your body, even when they’re not attached to it.


S12: That is my favorite thing.


S17: This how many would not do on? I don’t know atoms so well, but I felt sure that of all of us on the stage, you are the least likely to actually do this. The jeans are the shirt. Both of it. Anything that involves I was gonna ask at a hygeine.


S14: So I always think that basically jeans are wearable napkins. So completely right. After how many days where you wear jeans and you know, you got it, you got some hot mustard. It goes how many days of wearing jeans nor normal eating patterns do the do the jeans transfer from being jeans into actually being napkins? How much food do you have to wipe on your jeans?


S75: I’m going to replace the word napkin with shop rag and say that it’s almost arbitrary when you stop wearing them.


S77: Unless I’m working with something like motor oil or cooling fluid, in which case the jeans are done at the end of that day. Okay.


S57: I think you worn the shirt once.


S12: I did you. And I think this is totally OK thing to do and should really we should encourage it more. And we should also realize that people just do things like this all the time and that’s fine.


S31: But if you. You mean not bathes. I need to sleep.


S61: Not that you don’t have that.


S12: We we are a culture in which people are constantly showering and constantly changing clothes and constantly, unnecessarily imagining that they smell bad when actually it’s probably fine most of the time.


S4: So we must have a word with male audience poll this question of whether you wear the shirt once or three times. So if you think you wore the shirt or what?


S51: I don’t even know how you get twice. How would you even get twice? Okay. All right. Okay.


S4: We’ll do once, twice or three times. How many people lady wore the shirt once.


S60: How many people think you are the shirt? Twice. I think how do you think you wear the shirt three times and literally you tune in to understand three times.


S34: It’s because you ought to sleep at a separate time.


S57: OK. No, the second time is you’re wearing it in the morning.


S38: When’s the third time?


S57: The third time is if you wear it. So you wear it. You’re right. Now I’m wearing the shirt. I mean, wear it to bed and then I’m going to keep wearing in the morning.


S12: Yeah. So I’m wearing it. Tibet as the second time and wearing it in the morning is the third time.


S34: But how do you get to two? You just don’t count the sleeping. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like you kept it on the next day. Yeah.


S47: But here’s the thing implicit in the two is that wearing it is a daytime activity and they’re like you’re going somewhere. Right. But then that means shirts are not to be worn while you sleep. They don’t even have an identity while you’re sleeping.


S36: And therefore nightshirt. What’s a nice shirt? It’s a separate it’s a separate thing. How many men are wearing a night shirt?


S14: If you were a nice shirt during the did two days and one night, you’d only be wearing the white shirt one night.


S83: That’s a good point. Yeah, that’s great. OK.


S12: Would you rather never be able to shout or never be able to whisper? So I think the proper answer to this is that it’s OK to give up shouting. And like, that’s the more polite answer and the more socially acceptable answer. The truth is, I almost never whisper honestly.


S67: Really, I am overly loud as a.


S77: And and it is a it is a thing that people in my life deal with. And I would give up shouting in a minute. Over with.


S12: You feel slightly mortified by how much you shout and how much people say that you shout.


S75: Yeah. It just comes out. And sometimes I see that people are shying away from the volume coming out of me and I. Yeah.


S66: Yeah, I I feel you.


S39: I would also like to say that I’d give up shouting. But then how would I communicate with my children?


S65: I would definitely give up shouting because the most effective people who are most terrifying are not the people who shout at you. They’re the ones who like. I’d like to see you right now. Yes. So a nice, low threatening voice for that, right?


S75: Yeah. Yeah. And for children, you know, an air horn. Yeah. True.


S11: All right. I’ve put this is really a question for you.


S74: So let’s say you’re a basically incompetent person. Is it better for you to learn how to fix things like fix the toilet around your house even if you don’t do it very well, or to pay professionals to fix it for you and then use your time to do what you do best and earns you the most most money?


S77: Well, I’m really bias.


S76: So this answer demonstrates all of my bias that you should learn to fix something.


S12: And why why should you learn something?


S77: Because as a serial gather of skills. Who is? I am mediocre at everything I know how to do.


S84: I have found that is all cross applicable.


S76: So there’s no downside to learning a new thing. What you learned while learning is applicable to everything else you’ll ever learn again in your life.


S77: And you have a richer and more fulfilling life along the way. Indeed, it’s totally steep, something Steve Martin says that at the beginning of his career someone said to him, you will eventually use everything you’ve ever learned in the pursuit of your career. And like truer words have rarely been spoken.


S74: I think I totally agree with that. And the people who think you should pay people to do these things for you. It’s basically an economist view of the world, which is like we’re trying to maximize efficiency and it is more efficient for you to pay a plumber to fix your plumbing than for you to waste the time to do it.


S32: But it’s it’s it’s kind of I was thinking about this and I was thinking, well, would you tell somebody who can’t write poetry is like a who’s someone who’s a plumber, who wants to write poetry, don’t write poetry, leave it for the poets. And it’s like, no, you tell the plumber, go write poetry.


S49: You should even if it’s bad, because it will bring you that will bring you something you want to learn, like the poet is in.


S27: That’s a poet who wants to write poetry. Not a poor, not a plumber who wants to write poetry, not a plumber.


S12: He’s like, Oh, my God, are you serious? I can’t do this. Why are you trying to make me do this right?


S55: I guess how I feel about fixing. But don’t you?


S57: Have you ever have you ever mastered something like that? And you’re like, Oh, I’m glad I did it. I feel so much better, but I’ve done it. What a sense of accomplishment I have, even though I’m never gonna apply it to writing my cool New York Times magazine stories that at least now I can, you know, I can I can now change a light ball.


S17: I have on very rare occasions had that experience, but I have so much more often tried to fix something, gotten incredibly frustrated and given up like Ophelia in Hamlet.


S30: Ha ha ha.


S13: All right. I guess I can’t re-enact Ophelia. That involves like changing a tire fixed, take the toilet, anything like now I’m deep.


S12: I’m very much in the flooding. You all the appreciation you can show for someone else in your life is good at fixing things. If you’re not, I’m really good at that.


S52: And so in off those things, please paint this fence I like.


S80: I wish I knew more things. Jack of all trades, master of none. I think that’d be great. But you know, the second half of that phrase, though often better than a master of one boom.


S41: Oh, did not know that that was good. All right. We’re new. One more question here and then go to the lightning round so this you can pick one member of the Beatles as your ally in the zombie apocalypse. Which one do you pick up?


S75: Yeah, it’s George. Of course. Harrison. George.


S78: Why? He is the most. I think he’s was the Beatles most attached to reality as it was.


S75: I’m basing that on nothing but my intuition.


S12: And four seconds of fly what you want in an apocalypse. The person attached to reality.


S76: Because right now the right birth, though you are making quick decision, Ed, all life and death. You want someone who is dealing with things as they are, not as they would wish them to be.


S14: And the whole wife thing with Eric Clapton. He’s that sees he’s got some grit from also John basically in bed naked with Yoko.


S47: Like he’s not getting out of bed zombie. I mean, he’s already super sketchy.


S12: But Paul McCartney, so chirpy, upbeat, like entertaining at every step of the apocalyptic way.


S75: Well, maybe he’d be serenading you while you’re killing zombies.


S12: Yeah. He’s a good man. Could be good.


S14: But he has some some pent up anger at always having his name being second.


S13: But any apocalypse. Everyone’s dead. You give me first, second laugh. No, no.


S14: I’m saying you’d want him on your side because of his pent up anger. Yeah. Can you ask number four, David?


S75: I think before remember four, OK. What does it say that none of us brought Ringo to that conversation?


S41: He’s going to outlast them all. Yeah. Which means he could be a zombie. This will be our last room for lightning round.


S11: Domesticated pets have now become the overlords of the earth.


S4: Would you rather be ruled by cats or dogs?


S85: John? No, no, it’s Adam. I’m this.


S84: This one’s a softball because cats would be awful leaders.


S12: Super mean. Yeah. I’m scared of cat.


S79: Look, if you die in your house, your cat’s going to start eating your face right away. Your dog would totally the dog. What? He’s hota. He’s going to wait a while. He’s going away to my cat. The cat is like, oh, here’s fresh meat.


S47: Good order. Chaos framed this Starlee. Wrong. They will both eat you. It’s just the cat will enjoy it.


S79: Dogs are just Phonce of unconditional love. That’s exactly what I wanted. That is a leader.


S12: Oh, yes. It would be chaotic, but much more fun.


S47: Also, the cats are so damn indifferent, they’d be like pestilence.


S12: I mean, the dogs, the late 60s and the. That’s like the worst of the 1980s.


S83: What country?


S55: All like parachute and zippers. The country or the cat? Yeah, in general, I feel like cats are some super kleptocratic Singapore. No, something more authoritarian than that. Yeah, and I’m kleptocratic. That’s interesting. A corrupt and authoritarian.


S75: Like, have you seen my asshole lately?


S21: Really? Your cat would be asking you if your cat could talk. That’s what he’d ask you. All the dogs would be what the dogs would be. Italy, the government fall? Yeah. It would just be a party. Yeah.


S47: Oh yeah. The food would eat. Glory would be awesome wine.


S86: The light would be gorgeous and everyone would be happy.


S66: Are there any other animals we want to introduce into this question mark?


S21: I think Gary rats would be great. Rats. Rats would be big, right? Rats would be amazing. Same for rise.


S35: Organized, familial. No, they’re just like really organized. Their familial. They’re really social.


S75: Rats are great. I’ve had several rats as pets. They are fabulous. But aren’t.


S14: But but aren’t most of the terms but aren’t most of the terms that describe governments and bureaucracies that go wrong related to rats?


S35: That’s just a misunderstanding.


S12: Rat’s nest. Saraf rat fucking did a good job with the rats leaving a sinking ship, which is sensible behavior.


S38: Not if they can’t swim.


S11: All right. We’re gonna do a lightning round and then we’re gonna we’re gonna go to your audience conundrums. All right. So lightning round. Super high speed. Super high stakes. Here we go.


S32: Would you rather eat only fruit or only vegetables? Vegetables and fruit, vegetables, audience fruit or vegetables? First fruits.


S45: Vegetables.


S21: Wrong. OK. Star Wars or Star Trek, can we no, no, no, no, no.


S87: Star. Star Trek. Star Wars. Wait. You said you don’t even know what’s going on in Star. I really don’t know. At Star Trek. Barely. I have like watched a half of Star Trek episode in my whole life. I’m sorry. At least I watched the first three or so Star Wars movies.


S51: It’s the answerthe Galaxy Quest. Spaghetti or lasagna? Lasagna. What? Look on me. But I don’t like either of them very much.


S87: What? Wait. What do you want? I’m not really that into pasta. I’m just.


S15: Now, clearly safer, answered John.


S50: It’s better to be. It’s better to be upfront about that instead of being an impostor. Yeah.


S51: Spaghetti makes me spaghetti. Audience first, spaghetti second. Past the spaghetti mas Donya.


S41: Big loss, found equanimity. OK. This is a good one. Would you rather work in a Trump administration or in a coal mine as a coal miner?


S42: I would rather work in a Trump administration, coal mine, Trump administration, Trump administration.


S4: Would you rather have the lights on or off if you knew the room was full of spiders?


S12: I like spiders.


S58: And on wait, you like spiders? There’s like a lot of spider, but still on, definitely on.


S12: And I don’t feel like this is much better for me than anything dead. I don’t like dead anything or like cockroaches. Much more upsetting snakes. Totally. I like snakes to snakes and spiders are OK.


S21: Well, like snakes, dislikes, pasta. That’s a good dating and also great and infrequent shower lights on or off.


S39: Come on. Never turning them off.


S75: Never go on. Like I used to hate spiders, but we actually did an episode in which I had to stick my hand in a chamber with hundreds of spiders until one of them bit me. And it wasn’t that bad. The bite felt like someone touched my hand for a second.


S6: Yeah. All right. All right. Last one. What will be the last line of your obituary?


S19: He was survived by his wife and two children.


S12: That’s what I want. The last one of mind, because the very last thing I want more than anything else, I care about my children surviving me. And I’ll be nice. And my husband survived. Me, too, but especially my children. I feel like that’s the most important thing that you could have in your obituary.


S7: Minus according to a National Park Service spokesman.


S88: The cliff is clearly marked on maps for years that year about it.


S89: That is our show for today. The gabfests is produced by Josslyn Frank. Our researchers BRIGID Dunlop, Faith Smith managed this live event. June Thomas is the managing producer’s late podcast. Gabe Roth is the editorial director of podcast. Thanks to the Fox Theater. Thanks to Adam Savage.


S5: And thanks to you, our dear audience here in Oakland, California.


S90: Good night.


S62: Hello. Slate Plus. So we’re now doing a Slate Plus segment and we’re gonna do some of your conundrums quickly.


S12: The con way marriage. That’s the conundrum.


S91: Go.


S12: It is really just very hard to fathom. I can’t decide if they’re really just not married to each other anymore or if they’ve just figured out like the most remarkable detente ever. I’m just. Those are the choices. Right.


S77: It’s super bizarre. And. Yeah. DE-stabilizing Lee Strange.


S32: Okay. If you could eradicate nullify one invention from the past 50 years, what would it be?


S56: The atomic bomb.


S21: That’s more than 50 years. Oh, crap. Really? How? You get the hydrogen bomb last 50 years? Actually, you can’t have a hydrogen bomb that was also more than 50 years ago. So.


S33: No, no. All right. We’re knocking that out.


S84: Part of me wants to say the cell phone.


S79: The idea. And people have used them all the time for those.


S84: I just want to point out that those of us of a certain age when we were teenagers, there was less than 7 milliseconds of delay in the analog phone. I was talking to my girlfriend in 1984 and it was like talking on the phone back then was such an intimate experience. You felt like you were in the room with the person you were talking to. And now it sucks so bad. Yeah.


S12: Should we get rid of the whole internet or just social media platforms? I would keep the internet and get rid of social media. I think I don’t know how you prevent it from dumfounded.


S14: Could we do this show if we’d grown up in an age of cell phones where we were all texting each other?


S12: If you would you will our children be unable to do such a show? Witman They can’t relate in real life.


S14: If we hadn’t grown up. Yes, and get off my lawn. If we hadn’t grown up in the age we did. Maybe the Gap has 30 years. We’ll just be texting.


S92: Huh? Now, John, if you were to meet yourself, do you think you’d be friends?


S39: If we were to meet? If I were to meet myself? Do I think I’d be friends? Huh? That’s interesting. So two of my oldest friends are in the audience. I think if I met myself when I was the age and we used to hang out, I don’t think so.


S28: But they’re really great. They are great. So there must have been very forgiving. Never been so bad.


S39: Yeah, I sometimes. Oh, my gosh. I think that poor guy. So. But I met myself now.


S28: Yeah. Yeah. Think could you be friends but irritated. You know Ecklie.


S29: What do you think? What habit of yours would irritate you?


S12: I don’t know so many.


S14: But here’s the thing. I’m more I’m I’m more generous now than I was back then, you know? So it would be both. Right. So you’ve gotten older on the one end and then on the other end, you’re more you’d be in a weird situation where you’d be lusting after your friend’s wife.


S33: You’d be like, we.


S39: It’s like she doesn’t know, you know, because. Because if I met myself, I’m so in love with myself, it would be like, dude, how are you? You know, I’d be. I would seek no other affections.


S30: This has gone into a weird place.


S43: Adam, would you be friends with yourself?


S75: I totally think I would. But there’s a thing that happens. I’m in my 50s now, and there’s this thing that I’ve realized in the last few years. It’s it’s harder to make friends as an adult. But one of the reasons I think it is is because you start to be able to see exactly how crazy everyone is. Right. And get to. And you see like, oh, you’re batshit in this way and you’re crazy in that way. And so friendship becomes this overlapping crazy sort of algorithm. And if you bite yourself, you feel like the same kind of crazy. We’re gonna get along great.


S12: Well, the same kind of crazy is hard to deal with. Same kind of anything. That’s why I think I would irritate myself so much because things that are too similar, I won’t read. What in yourself would irritate you? I think like the way I talk would probably drive me crazy interrupting bad do it all the time. That’s that’s a start.


S77: But there’s a difference between being in a relationship with yourself or being in a friendship with yourself. Those are two different things, because I think I drive myself nuts in a relationship, but I’d be a great friend.


S36: That’s good. Yeah, that’s good. That’s good. Yeah. Unction. That was a good question.


S22: All right. One of those. Let’s do two more.


S14: Would you rather be caught having sex by your parents or your children?


S61: I mean, isn’t the answer.


S66: So, huh?


S30: Isn’t the answer?


S12: Well, yes, if it ends, are your parents. Because you don’t care about traumatizing your parents at least like. Right. Your children are your responsibility and they’re the ones who, it would seem might be traumatized. So I think you are supposed to choose your parents.


S48: Someone disagrees. Yes. Let’s audience pull it. All right. So would you rather be. We’ll do parents first and children. Would you rather be caught by your parents?


S60: Would you rather be caught by your children?


S50: But doesn’t this matter about what age you. OK. Here’s how. What age are your children? I’m just trying to help them out. What?


S47: At what age would that change that age? The age at which you’re. OK. I caught myself.


S75: Lastly, I will say, when my when my parents caught me having sex, I was 17. I was proud that they had something against me at least. Were you in trouble? Oh, really?


S40: No. My parents were bohemians. They were is exactly what if you’d been a girl? Adam, the kitchen is for making food.


S75: But my when my 17 year old son caught me and my wife. Well, actually, it was way more embarrassing because it was like an hour later I was down in the kitchen making a snack and he was like, hey, next time, leave a sock on the door.


S51: And I was like, you can’t talk like that. We’re not roommates. He was that when you realized he’d call you or he he’d call you. No, that’s it. He’d come in.


S75: Yeah. We didn’t know. We didn’t notice him.


S62: He was stealthy. I guess we’re getting caught. Let’s continue this later. I think we should stop there by Slate Plus.
